accurate and real-time doppler frequency estimation with multiplicative noise for velocity measurements using optical feedback interferometry. this paper proposes to analyze a real-time signal processing algorithm for on-line velocity measurement of a moving target, with a laser sensor using optical feedback interferometry. this velocity is based on an accurate estimation of the doppler frequency from a spectral analysis of the laser diode output signal. this study takes into account both main causes of disrupting noises: additive noise and multiplicative noise caused by the speckle effect. a very simple expression is given for the doppler frequency estimation bias based on an autoregressive spectral analysis method intensive monte carlo simulations, which are compared with experimental results, show that relative bias and standard deviations of about 0.1% and 0.5% respectively can be obtained for a wide range of velocities.
codalema : first results, new questions (about radiodetection of cosmic ray extensive air showers). null
bilan du travail exp\'erimental sur la radio-d\'etection des gerbes cosmiques de septembre 2001 \`a juin 2003. null
on state space representation for linear discrete-time systems in hilbert spaces. for a linear continuous-time control system in hilbert space with state x(t) is associated a discrete-time system where the state variable is z k = (x((k + 1)h) + x(kh))/2, with small h. this allows to introduce a discrete derivative ∆z k = (x((k + 1)h) − x(kh))/h. the obtained discrete-time system has structural properties with a similar formulation as continuous sys-tem. stability is equivalent to the fact that the spectrum of the state oper-ator of discrete-time system is in the left half plane, lyapunov and riccati equation are similar.
comments on: "continuous initial observability of nonlinear delay parabolic equations"  by choi, kwung and park. it is shown that the assumptions of the main result of the cited paper can never be satisfied.
the megapie 1 mw target in support to ads development: status of r&amp;d and design. the megapie project is aimed at designing, building and operating a liquid metal spallation neutron target as a key experiment on the road to an experimental accelerator driven system and to improve the neutron flux at the psi spallation source. the design of the target system has been completed. the target configuration and the operating conditions have been defined and the expected performance assessed. a preliminary safety analysis has been performed considering normal, off-normal and accident conditions and a corresponding report has been submitted to the authorities for licensing. the experience gained up to now shows that megapie may well be the first liquid metal target to be irradiated under high power beam conditions.
megapie target design and dimensioning. in a collaborative effort, the megawatt pillot experiment is an initiative to design, build, operate and decommission an exploratory liquid lead-bismuth spallation target for 1 mw of beam power, taking advantage of the existing spallation neutron facility and accelerator complex sinq in psi.after a successful engineering design review in november 2001, the technical review meeting in march 2002 and the first detailed design review in april 2002, the target design is now almost completed, the manufacturing phase is launched and the construction will start in april 2003 after the second detail design review and the ready for manufacturing review in march. the present contribution is not a detailed description of the target design, but gives an overview on some selected issues of relevance before going into manufacturing.this paper is based on the presentation held at the megapie technical review meeting in paris on march 18-19, 2003. the target heat exchanger and the electromagnetic pump system are presented in separate papers of the meeting and will not be detailed in this paper.
technical system and organiation : a question of learning. null
closure of market, formalisation of trade, overflow of the actors. the case of computerised fish auction in pays bigouden (france). les auteurs montrent qu'entre l'offre des marins pêcheurs et la demande des mareyeurs, s'intercalent des criées où sont vendus les produits de la pêche artisanale. après avoir décrit les investissements informatiques successifs des chambres de commerce et de l'industrie (cci) en charge de ces marchés pour mettre en forme les enchères qui s'y déroulent conformément à une représentation marchande empruntant beaucoup à la figure du commissaire-priseur walrassien, les auteurs examinent comment les acteurs composent avec ce dispositif. les mareyeurs, en mutualisant par l'entente les coûts de l'incertitude des approvisionnements comme des débouchés, nous montrent que l'informatisation déplace le contenu politique de l'échange. les producteurs, en maximisant les captures tout en minimisant les informations en direction du marché, nous montrent que si le discours économique orthodoxe véhiculé par les cci existe, il ne pénètre pas tous les acteurs de la même façon.
caching web services: aspect orientation to the rescue. null
mixing aspects and components for grid computing. null
constructing component-based extension interfaces in legacy systems code. implementing an extension of a legacy operating system requires knowing what functionalities the extension should provide and how the extension should be integrated with the legacy code. to resolve the first problem, we propose that the use of a component model can make explicit the interface between an extension and legacy code. to resolve the second problem, we propose to augment interface specifications with rewrite rules that integrate support for extensions in the legacy code. we illustrate our approach using extensions that add new scheduling policies to linux and prefetching to the squid web cache. in both cases a small number of rules are sufficient to describe modifications that apply across the implementation of a large legacy system.
structure characterization and adsorption properties of pyrolyzed sewage sludge. sewage sludges produced from wastewater treatment plants continue to set environmental problems in terms of volume and way of reuse. thermal treatment of sewage sludge is considered as an attractive method in reducing sludge volume, and at the same time, it produces reusable byproducts. this paper deals with porous carbonaceous materials production from sewage sludge by pyrolysis (or carbonization) process with a goal of different industrial applications. carbonization experiments were carried out on two kinds of sludge, namely viscous liquid sludge and limed sludge by varying carbonization temperature between 400 degrees c to 1000 degrees c. the porous structure and surface chemistry of the materials obtained were characterized using nitrogen adsorption, scanning electron microscopy, elemental analysis, boehm titration, and ph of zero point of charge determination. the results show that basic character of the carbonized residues increases with increasing carbonization temperature. then, carbonization allows specific surface area and pore volumes to be developed. carbonized viscous liquid sludge and carbonized limed sludge are mainly mesoporous in nature, with specific surface areas reaching about 100 m(2) g(-1) and.
production and characterization of adsorbent materials from an industrial waste. preparation of activated carbon is carried out from an abundant and very cheap waste by-product from wastewater treatment plant: sewage sludge. the first step of preparation consists in a carbonization process under a 10 ml min(-1) nitrogen flow, at 600 degrees c during 1 hour. the second step is a physical activation, performed with carbon dioxide. the experimental conditions of the activation were optimized using experimental design methodology. three factors were studied: activation temperature (from 700 to 900 degrees c), activation duration (from 30 to 120 min) and co2 flow rate (from 0.7 to 2.9 l min(-1)). the porous carbonaceous materials were characterized in terms of physico-chemical and structural properties (specific surface area, pore volumes, surface ph, surface functional groups) and adsorption properties in aqueous and gaseous phase, these characteristics constituting the responses of the experimental design. a surface response methodology enabled to define optimum values for the 3 factors (at 900 degrees c during 30 min for a co2 flow rate of 2.9 l min(-1)) which involve an adsorbent with a specific surface area of 260 m(2) g(-1) and a pore size distribution comprising meso and micropores. adsorption capacities of organic pollutants (phenol, dyes, voc) are proportional to the specific surface area, apart from copper adsorption capacities (up to 80 mg g(-1)) due to an ion-exchange mechanism with ca2+ ions present in the raw material. in order to decrease the high ash content in the produced material (51 wt.%) and thus to improve the pore development, carbonized sludge were washed with an acid (hcl, 3 m) at room temperature before the activation step. this oxidation pre-treatment allowed to reach a 4 10 m(2) g(-1) specific surface area with an ash content of 26.4 wt.%.
preparation and characterization of activated carbon from sewage sludge: carbonization step. sewage sludges produced from wastewater treatment plants continue to create environmental problems in terms of volume and method of valorization. thermal treatment of sewage sludge is considered as an attractive method in reducing sludge volume which at the same time produces reusable by-products. this paper deals with the first step of activated carbon production from sewage sludge, the carbonization step. experiments are carried out on viscous liquid sludge and limed sludge by varying carbonization temperature and heating rate. the results show that carbonized residue properties are interesting for activated carbon production.
image analysis: a useful tool for porous media characterization. null
experimental design methodology for the preparation of carbonaceous sorbents from sewage sludge by chemical activation - application to air and water treatments. the objective of this study is to optimize experimental conditions of sorbent preparation from sewage sludge using experimental design methodology. series of carbonaceous sorbents have been prepared by chemical activation with sulfuric acid. the sorbents produced were characterized, and their properties (surface chemistry, porous and adsorptive properties) were analyzed as a function of the experimental conditions (impregnation ratio, activation temperature and time). carbonaceous sorbents developed from sludge allow copper ion, phenol and dyes (acid red 18 and basic violet 4) to be removed from aqueous solution as well as voc from gas phase. indeed, according to experimental conditions, copper adsorption capacity varies from 77 to 83 mg g(-1) , phenol adsorption capacity varies between 41 and 53 mg g 1 and voc adsorption capacities (acetone and toluene) range from 12 to 54 mg g(-1). each response has been described by a second-order model that was found to be appropriate to predict most of the responses in every experimental region. the most influential factors on each experimental design response have been identified. regions in which optimum values of each factor were achieved for preparation of activated carbons suitable for use in wastewater and gas treatments have been determined using response surfaces methodology. in order to have. a high mass yield and to minimize the energetic cost of the process, the following optimal conditions, 1.5 g of h2so4 g(-1) of sludge, 700 degreesc and 145 min are more appropriate for use of activated carbon from sludge in water and gas treatments. (c) 2004 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
characteristics of fixed beds packed with anisotropic particles - use of image analysis. fixed beds of anisotropic particles are commonly involved in chemical engineering processes: beds of cylindrical catalyst pellets or beds of wood shavings in paper industry. the characterization of the spatial variations of their structural properties is of great importance for flow modelling purposes. in this work, we intend to produce new data concerning a bed of long cylinder (h/ d = 5.29) and a bed of flat plates (e/a = 0.209). this study focuses on the characterization of top and bottom effects, as well as wall effects. the experimental procedure is based on the study of sections of packed beds consolidated with a resin. the captured images of successive transverse and longitudinal sections of the beds are treated and analysed, thanks to an image analysis software. the local variation of the voidage is determined in both the transverse and the longitudinal directions of the beds. furthermore, mean intercept lengths and mean numbers of particles are measured and discussed. concerning flat plates, an anisotropic ratio calculated from intercept measurements is compared to that previously obtained from pressure drop measurements. the main results of this work concern the enlightening of wall effects and end effects importance for the two studied beds compared to beds of spheres studied in the literature. (c) 2001 elsevier science b.v. all rights reserved.
adsorption of toluene onto activated carbon fibre cloths and felts: application to indoor air treatment. due to their bad effects on human health, removing volatile organic compounds from indoor air has become an issue of major interest. in this study, the potential use of six commercial activated carbon felts and cloths for indoor toluene removal was investigated. both batch and dynamic adsorption studies were performed, at toluene concentrations ranging from 21 to 18160 mg m(-3), for an air velocity representative of indoor air treatment (0.37 m s(-1)). batch measurements showed that felts exhibited higher adsorption capacities at equilibrium than cloths at high toluene concentrations, whereas this trend may be inverted at low concentrations. experimental isotherms and kinetics were satisfactorily fitted by the langmuir-freundlich model and the linear driving force model respectively. no main differences between the adsorption kinetics of felts and cloths were reported. dynamic adsorption capacities at saturation appeared to be higher than 120 mg g(-1) for both cloths and felts, irrespective of relative humidity levels and toluene concentrations. the influence of relative humidity on the adsorption capacity of felts was not significant for the higher toluene concentration studied in dynamics (307 mg m(-3)), whereas an increase in relative humidity induced a decrease in adsorption capacity at the lower toluene concentration (38 mg m(.3)). moreover, experimental curves of breakthrough time versus thickness of medium were satisfactorily fitted by the adams-bohart model, and the critical thickness determined by this model appeared to be below 1.3 mm, regardless of the medium or toluene concentration.
experimental investigations on the use of preheated animal fat as fuel in a compression ignition engine. the effect of fuel inlet temperature on performance, emission and combustion characteristics of a diesel engine is evaluated. a single cylinder direct injection diesel engine developing a power output of 2.8 kw at 1500 rev/min is tested using preheated animal fat as fuel. experiments are conducted at the fuel inlet temperatures of 30, 40, 50, 60 and 70 °c. animal fat at low temperature results in higher ignition delay and combustion duration than diesel. preheated animal fat shows reduced ignition delay and combustion duration. peak pressure and rate of pressure rise are found as high with animal fat at high fuel inlet temperatures. heat release pattern shows reduced premixed combustion phase with animal fat as compared to neat diesel at normal temperature. preheating improves the premixed combustion rate. at low temperature, animal fat results in lower smoke emissions than diesel. the maximum smoke density is k=6.5 m−1 with diesel and k=3.6 m−1 with animal fat at 30 °c. preheated animal fat further reduces smoke levels at all temperatures. the smoke level is reduced up to k=1.7 m−1 with preheated animal fat at the temperature of 70 °c. hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide emissions are higher with animal fat at low temperature as compared to diesel. fuel preheating reduces these emissions. \no\ emission is found as low with animal fat at low temperature. fuel preheating results in increased \no\ emission. however, the level is still lower than diesel even at high temperature (i.e. 70 °c). on the whole it is concluded that preheated animal fat can be used in diesel engines with reduced smoke, hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide emissions with no major detoriation in engine performance.
optimal use of the generated biogas from manure. this paper presents the results of an optimisation algorithm for biogas use. there is considered the case of the big farms. generated biogas from manure is an important energy resource. the goal of the research is to estimate how biogas can cover the energy demand of the farms. special software has been developed for managing the energy, environmental and economy balances. the best approach is to use biogas for producing heat and power. one can assume different heating schedules and electricity needs. energy consumption for hog, poultry, beef and dairy farms can be simulated. the potential of the generated biogas is estimated using specific indicators. the software is able to find the optimal size of the biogas engine and boiler for different cases. the energy production is compared with the needs of the farm. as a result, there are presented financial analysis of valorisation projects for different types of animal farm.
experimental database for a cogeneration gas engine efficiency prediction. a total of 115 operating test points have been investigated on a cogeneration industrial 200 kw, gas engine at ecole des mines de nantes, with load varying between 50 and 100 per cent, spark advance between 8 degrees and 20 degrees crank angle and air excess in the range 1.3-1.7. the analysis provides st mathematical correlation giving the influence of load variation and other parameters on the thermal power, the natural gas inlet power, the electrical efficiency and the global efficiency with an accuracy better than 2 per cent.
thermodynamic analysis of reciprocating compressors. a global model for the thermodynamic analysis of reciprocating compressors is presented. the model is based on five main and four secondary dimensionless physically meaningful parameters. expressions for the volumetric effectiveness, the work per unit mass and the indicated efficiency are derived. the model has been used in order to predict the performance of a reciprocating air compressor under various operating conditions. the model proves to be a very accurate and useful tool to analyse the compressor performance. the relative importance of the various losses and the influence of different parameters on the reciprocating compressor behaviour are discussed. especially the in-cylinder residual mass fraction and the walt to fluid heat transfer influences on the reciprocating compressor performance are highlighted. (c) 2001 editions scientifiques et medicales elsevier sas.
comparison of aerobic standard medium with specific fungal medium for detecting fusarium spp. in blood cultures. in order to compare the performances of a specific fungal medium and a standard aerobic medium for detecting growth of fusarium spp. in blood, simulated blood cultures were performed. for lower inocula (10(2) and 10(3) cfu/ml taken together), fungal growth was detected significantly earlier using the fungal medium. the mean difference in the time to detection between the two media was 22.33 h at 10(2) cfu/ml, with the maximum difference being achieved for fusarium verticilloides at 37.05 h. these in vitro test results suggest fungal medium could be useful for obtaining more rapid blood culture results when evaluating patients at risk for invasive infection with fusarium spp.
a diesel engine global simulation tool - benefits in coolant loop optimization and additional heating systems use. this article focuses on a global simulation software of a car cooling system. the sub-models involved are firstly detailed. a computation of air temperature blown into the car cabin is satisfactory compared to experimental results carried out in wind tunnel. in a second part, an example of an optimized defrosting strategy is described. finally, the impact of several additional heating systems, burners and electrical systems, is studied in term of comfort and fuel consumption. the evaluation of the different technologies relies on a dimensionless indicator which links car cabin comfort and fuel consumption.
assessment of co2 reduction in tri-generation - case studies. tri-generation is a simultaneous production of three types of energy carriers, usually power, heat and cold. this technology can assure a greater efficiency of fuel use, thus a lower level of co2 emissions compare to separate production. the paper presents an analysis of several existing tri-generation plants with regard to co2 emissions. the analysis focuses on determining the level of co2 emissions for each plant and comparing it with the conventional separate production. the method used for calculating co2 emissions proved that tri-generation provide a lower level of co2 emissions compare to separate production.
opportunity of the on-farm biogas plants - subsidies policy for co2 reduction. the aim of the paper is to investigate the opportunity of the cogeneration projects using generated biogas from manure. the authors have proposed a method for sizing different equipments for the biogas valorization chain. the co2 reduction due the biogas use has been calculated considering the fuel savings in cogeneration plant. a part of the article presents different methods for making a biogas plant become feasible. the results are presented as variations of the payback period of the investment in function of the farm's size. sensitivity analyses are made for determining the most important factor influencing the rentability of the biogas plant.
a new indicator for knock detection in gas si engines. determination of knock onset for any engine tuning remains a difficult work for many engine manufacturers. this study investigates different combinations of existing knock indices in order to produce an upgraded indicator, which is easier to calibrate. experiments are conducted on a single-cylinder gas engine bounded to combined heat and power (chp). effects of spark advance, volumetric efficiency and equivalent ratio are studied under constant speed operation. the ratio impo/(mapo x w) (with impo defined as the integral of modulus of pressure oscillations, mapo as the maximum amplitude of pressure oscillations and w as the width of the computational window) is proposed as suitable indice. in any engine setting, it remains constant under no knocking conditions. when knock occurs, a model deduced from dimensionless analysis allows determination of the oversteps of knock limited spark advance from a single impo/(mapo x w) measurement with an accuracy better than 1 ca. knock is then studied for different gas qualities by adding propane or carbon dioxide to the fuel. the results show that there is no significant effect of the fuel composition on the proposed indicator, making the model able to calculate klsa overstep in all the situations. (c) 2002 editions scientifiques et medicales elsevier sas. all rights reserved.
knock prevention of chp engines by addition of n-2 and co2 to the natural gas fuel. this work focuses on the prevention of knock in the case of spark ignition (si) engines supplied by natural gas network. the effects of the addition of two inert gases (n-2 and co2) are experimentally studied. the added volumetric quantities are between 0% and 25% for n-2 and between 0% and 15% for co2. the thermal efficiency and the emissions of the engine are very slightly affected by the addition, whereas a significant increase of the knock limited spark timing (klst) is always measured. a twice-higher augmentation of klst is noted when co2 is added compared to n2 for an equivalent volumetric concentration. the overall augmentation varies between +1 and +6 degreesca depending on engine operation. finally, a law for predicting the klst augmentation implied by the addition of inert gases is deduced from all the measurements. (c) 2003 elsevier science ltd. all rights reserved.
the use of a phase change material within a cylinder wall in order to detect knock in a gas si engine. the present paper studies the possibility to develop a new method of knock detection in a gas si engine. this method is based on the increase in the wall heat flux when knock occurs. it also must be simple enough to be used by industry. in order to achieve this goal, a metallic phase change material is put within the wall cylinder. the melting of the pcm means that knock has occurred and is persistent. the melting of such a phase change material would be easy to detect using industrial measurement tools. in this paper, numerical simulations of unsteady heat transfer across the cylinder wall are presented. unsteady heat transfer from the hot gas to the wall chamber is simulated by a self-developed program. this program allows fixing instantaneous local heat flux values deduced from the literature in case of both normal and knocking combustion. heat transfer across the cylinder wall is solved by the finite volume technique. grid is validated by comparison with analytical results. melting is treated by the voller and prakash model and sodium is chosen as pcm. among all the results, we can notice that an increase in the knock intensity changes the shape of the isothermal curves around and inside the pcm. this leads to an increase in the melting velocity with a higher rate than the increase in the heat flux.
investigation of the oxidation zone in a biomass two-stage downdraft gasifier. the partial combustion in a two-stage downdraft gasifier is critical for the process optimisation. flame temperature and residence time of gas in the hot zone are indeed determining for tar cracking, the major issue in gasification. this paper presents a cfd model of the oxidation zone. chemical reactions, including tar cracking, are treated by the ''edc'' model (homogeneous reactions). fluid flows are turbulent and simulated by the k-epsilon rng turbulence model. the validation of the model is done with the dtu 100 kw two-stage gasifier. results fit satisfactory the data, regarding the temperature profile.
effect of alcohols addition on the performance and emission characteristics of an animal fat emulsion fuelled diesel engine. in this work, the effect of alcohol addition on the performance and emissions of a diesel engine fuelled with animal fat emulsions is studied. a single cylinder air-cooled, direct injection diesel engine is used. tests are conducted using animal fat emulsions with water and alcohols. methanol and ethanol are used to improve the physical properties of emulsions. results show significant improvement in performance and emissions with animal fat emulsions as compared to neat animal fat. smoke levels are drastically reduced with both the emulsions. ethanol animal fat emulsion shows more reduction in smoke levels than methanol emulsion. no significant difference in no emission is noted between the two emulsions. however, the values are very low as compared to neat fat and neat diesel. hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide emissions are found as higher with ethanol emulsions as compared to methanol. however, these emissions are still lower than neat fat and neat diesel. on the whole it is concluded that animal fat emulsions with methanol and ethanol can be used as fuel in a compression ignition engine with improved performance as compared to neat animal fat.
numerical study of micro-explosion delay of water-in-fuel emulsion droplets. spray combustion of water-emulsified fuel induces an effective decrease in total combustion time, carbonaceous residues and nox compared to pure fuel, thanks to the micro-explosion phenomenon. designing emulsion-burning appliances requires to calculate the micro-explosion delay included in total combustion time. this rather technical contribution addresses the problem of how to model the process of microexplosions in emulsions. the authors describe a numerical method to account for thermal conduction effects and analyze its effect upon the microexplosion delay. some of the expressed physical quantities may be useful for other researchers in this field. the evolution of the emulsion droplet (radius and temperature through the time) is faced with experimental micro-explosion delay, for three cases of emulsion droplet (different initial diameters and temperatures). finally, observations resulting from this comparison are discussed.
unsteady heat transfer enhancement around an engine cylinder in order to detect knock. this paper deals with the transient thermal signal around an engine cylinder in order to propose a new and nonintrusive method of knock detection. numerical simulations of unsteady heat transfer through the cylinder and inside the coolant flow are carried out to account for heat flux variations due to normal and knocking combustion. the effect of rib roughened surfaces on thermal signal amplification is investigated. the geometric parameters are fixed at pi/h=70 and w/h=1 with a reynolds number based on hydraulic diameter of 12,000. the results reveal that square ribs give better performance in term of thermal signal amplification within the fluid. an amplification of the temperature variation up to 20 times higher is found. finally, flow analysis shows that amplification depends on the position where the thermal signal is collected.
use of animal fats as ci engine fuel by making stable emulsions with water and methanol. this paper presents a detailed analysis on different properties of two kind of animal fats and their suitability of using them as fuel in diesel engines. initially, the physical and chemical properties (viscosity, low heating value (lhv) and chemical compositions) of animal fats are obtained experimentally. in the second phase of work, the animal fats are modified to form emulsions with water in different quantities. in the last phase, methanol is added to improve the physical properties of emulsions further. on the whole it is concluded that the animal fats can be transformed into a stable biofuel emulsions with improved physical and chemical properties and used as good alternative fuel in diesel engines. an optimum formulation is obtained by mixing 15% of water, 15% of methanol and 2% of surfactant. (c) 2005 elsevier ltd. all rights reserved.
effect of water and methanol fractions on the performance of a ci engine using animal fat emulsions as fuel. the influence of water and methanol (w/m) fractions on the performance of a compression ignition engine fuelled with animal fat (obtained from duck) emulsions is studied. a single cylinder air-cooled, direct injection diesel engine developing a rated brake power output of 2.8 kw at 1500 r/min is tested using diesel neat animal fat, and animal fat emulsions with different fractions of w/m. results show reduced peak pressure with neat animal fat when compared with diesel. animal fat emulsions result in increased peak pressure with increased w/m fractions. ignition delay is quite high with neat animal fat. increase in w/m amounts in the emulsions further increase the ignition delay. heat release pattern shows improved combustion rates with animal fat emulsions at all w/m fractions when compared with neat animal fat. drastic reduction in smoke emission from 3.6 m(-1) with neat animal fat to a minimum of 0.5 m(-1) is achieved with the animal fat emulsion at the maximum w/m fraction. no emission is found to be lower with neat animal fat than with neat diesel. animal fat emulsions further reduce no emission at all w/m fractions. hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide emissions are also reduced significantly with animal fat emulsions at all w/m ratios when compared with neat animal fat. in general, animal fat emulsions with different w/m fractions show considerable reduction in all emissions and improvement in engine performance when compared with neat animal fat. emulsion of 10w10m2s83 (i.e. 10 per cent of water, 10 per cent of methanol, and 2 per cent of span 83 by volume) is found to be the best among the three tested emulsions for optimum performance and emissions.
contribution of biosorption to the behavior of radionuclides in the environment. the biosorption capacities for cesium, technetium, uranium and nickel was determined. various microbial strains, ph and mineral composition of medium (clay and concrete waters) were tested. for the cesium a column experiment with a biofilm was realised.
natural radioactivity in phosphates, phosphogypsum and natural waters in morocco. the contents of natural radionuclides (uranium. actinium and thorium series) were measured in sedimentary phosphate rock samples using high-resolution gamma spectrometry. data obtained for uranium content (ppm) were compared with the results obtained by a method based on the measurements using solid-state nuclear track detectors (ssntd) in the same samples. the potential leaching of radionuclides from sedimentary phosphate rock during the industrial production of the phosphoric acid was studied. the process of leaching of the radioisotopes from phosphogypsum was discussed. a method for the direct alpha counting of ra-226 thin source. elaborated by the deposition of ra from aqueous solutions on manganese oxides film deposited on polyvinyl support, have been developed and applied for the determination of ra-226 in natural water samples. the results show that only the water sample from the mine area reveals the presence of ra-226 at a level of about 0.2 bql(-1) (c) 2001 elsevier science ltd. all rights reserved.
hybrid materials for catalysis? design of new phosphonate-based supported catalysts for the hydrogenation of ketones under hydrogen pressure. supported rhodium. and iridium. 2,2 ' -bipyridine complexes were prepared for the hydrogenation of aromatic ketones under hydrogen pressure. the key feature of the immobilization process is the functionalization of the 2,2 ' -bipyridine unit with two phosphonic acid moieties, thus allowing the covalent grafting of the catalytic complex onto in situ generated titanium oxide particles. a very good catalytic activity is observed with the resulting materials that compares well with the homogeneous parent system and gives evidence that the major part of the catalytic sites are readily accessible. moreover, the catalyst can be reused, and no significant rhodium. leaching is observed.
determination of radium-226 in aqueous solutions by alpha-spectrometry. the new european legislation imposes a lower threshold for radioactivity in drinking water.. this requires the development of more sensitive and reliable analytical methods. this work presents an improved a-spectrometric technique to determine the radium-226 activity in aqueous solution relying on the radium adsorption onto a thin manganese oxide layer followed by a-measurement. the preparation of the mno2 deposit has been optimized as well as the radium adsorption conditions. detection threshold and limit of 5 and 10 mbq .l-1, respectively, with a 10% (95% confidence) uncertainty are currently reached. this paper reports on the overall technique and on its application to assess the radium-226 activity in 28 french mineral waters. in addition, the gross alpha- and beta -activities have been evaluated using proportional counting while the uranium concentrations were derived from icpms.
comparison of the fixation of several metal ions onto a low-cost biopolymer. in the present work, sugar beet pulp, a common waste from the sugar refining industry, was studied in the removal of metal ions from aqueous solutions. the ability of this cheap biopolymer to sorb several metals namely pb2+, cu2+, zn2+, cd2+ and ni2+ in aqueous solutions was investigated. the metal fixation capacities of the sorbent were determined according to operating conditions and the fixation mechanisms were identified. the biopolymer has shown high elimination rates and interesting metal fixation capacities. a pseudo-second-order kinetic model was tested to investigate the adsorption mechanisms. the kinetic parameters of the model were calculated and discussed. for 8 x 10(-4) m initial metal concentration, the initial sorption rates (v(0)) ranged from 0.063 mmol.g(-1).min(-1) 1 for pb2+ to 0.275 mmol.g(-1). min(-1) for ni2+ ions, with the order: ni2+ &gt; cd2+ &gt; zn2+ &gt; cu2+ &gt; pb2+. the equilibrium data fitted well with the langmuir model and showed the following affinity order of the material: pb2+ &gt; cu2+ &gt; zn2+ &gt; cd2+ &gt; ni2+. then, the kinetic and equilibrium parameters calculated q(m) and v(0) were tentatively correlated to the properties of the metals. finally, equilibrium experiments in multimetallic systems were performed to study the competition of the fixation of pb2+, zn2+ and ni2+ cations. in all cases, the metal fixation onto the biopolymer was found to be favourable in multicomponent systems. based on these results, it is demonstrated that this biosorbent represents a low-cost solution for the treatment of metal-polluted wastewaters.
study of the ion exchange selectivity of layered titanosilicate na-3(na,h)ti2o2[si2o6](2) center dot 2h(2)o, am-4, for strontium. this paper describes for the first time the sorption behaviour of a titanosilicate, am-4, that exhibits an extremely high affinity for strontium in neutral and alkaline media. the ion exchange selectivity of this layered titanosilicate is explained in relation to the crystalline structure. the simple approach which consists in studying carefully the distribution of formal charges of oxygens in the anionic framework and calculating a normalized bond length in order to measure the ion stability in its site has enabled us to account for the am-4 performances for the strontium remediation in competition with alkali and alkaline earth metal ions, the sr uptake amounts as a function of the ph were determined, they can be correlated to the formal charges of si-o-nbo. the effect of sodium, potassium, calcium and magnesium on the sr2+ ions sorption was also studied in binary solutions sr2+/na+, sr2+/k+, sr2+/ca2+, sr2+/mg2+. the determination of the equilibrium constant sr2+/2na(+) and of the ion competitive effects with adsorption data have shown that ca2+ is the most efficient to reduce the uptake of sr2+. the preliminary kd values provide an indication that this exchanger may act as a sorber for groundwater and nuclear remediation applications.
fixed-bed study for lanthanide (la, eu, yb) ions removal from aqueous solutions by immobilized pseudomonas aeruginosa: experimental data and modelization. a fixed-bed study was carried out by using cells of pseudomonas aeruginosa immobilized in polyacrylamide gel as a biosorbent for the removal of lanthanide (la, eu, yb) ions from aqueous solutions. the effects of superficial liquid velocity based on empty column, particle size, influent concentration and bed depth on the lanthanum breakthrough curves were investigated. immobilized biomass effectively removed lanthanum from a 6 mm solution with a maximum adsorption capacity of 342 mumolg(-1) (+/-10%) corresponding closely to that observed in earlier batch studies with free bacterial cells. the bohart and adams sorption model was employed to determine characteristic parameters useful for process design. results indicated that the immobilized cells of p. aeruginosa enable removal of lanthanum, europium and ytterbium ions from aqueous effluents with significant and similar maximum adsorption capacities. experiments with a mixed cation solution showed that the sequence of preferential biosorption was eu3+ greater than or equal to yb3+ &gt; la3+. around 96 +/- 4% of the bound lanthanum was desorbed from the column and concentrated by eluting with a 0.1 m edta solution. the feasibility of regenerating and reusing the biomass through three adsorption/desorption cycles was suggested. neural networks were used to model breakthrough curves performed in the dynamic process. the ability of this statistical tool to predict the breakthrough times was discussed. (c) 2002 elsevier science ltd. all rights reserved.
adsorption of several metal ions onto a low-cost biosorbent: kinetic and equilibrium studies. null
modeling of single and competitive metal adsorption onto a natural polysaccharide. sugar beet pulp, a common agricultural waste, was studied in the removal of metal ions from aqueous solutions. potentiometric titrations were used to characterize the surface acidity of the polysaccharide. the acid properties of the material can be described by invoking three distinct types of surface functional groups with the intrinsic acidity constants (pk(a)(int)) values 3.43 +/- 0.1, 6.05 +/- 0.05, and 7.89 +/- 0.1, respectively. the contents of each functional group (i.e., the carboxyl and phenol moieties) were also determined. then, a simple surface complexation model with the diffuse layer model successfully described the sorption of several metal ions (cu2+, zn2+, cd2+, and ni2+) onto the polysaccharide under various experimental,conditions: ph ranging from 2 to 5.5, ionic strength from 0.01 to 0.1 m, metal concentration between 10(-4) and 10(-3) m, for a constant sorbent concentration equal to 2.5 g.l-1. it was observed experimentally that the affinity of the polysaccharide was in the sequence of cu2+ &gt; zn2+ &gt; cd2+ &gt; ni2+. predictions of sorption in binary-metal systems based on single-metal data fits represented competitive sorption data reasonably well.
ni(ii) and cu(ii) binding properties of native and modified sugar beet pulp. kthe abilities of native and modified sugar beet pulps to remove ni(ii) and cu(ii) ions from aqueous solutions were compared. their preparation by chemical treatments (saponification, hot 0.05 m hcl and cold 0.05 m naoh extractions) is described. the sugar composition, which was strongly affected during these modifications, is discussed in terms of metal sorption efficiencies. ne influence of these modifications was also evaluated by comparing the content of the functional groups determined by potentiometric titration, and the rate and extent of cu(ii) and ni(ii) uptakes onto the raw and modified materials. nickel and copper sorptions were fast and complete within 30 min and the kinetic parameters were calculated using a second order model. the equilibrium data fitted well with the langmuir model and showed the affinity order of the materials for the metal ions. the base-extracted pulp and saponified pulp exhibited the highest ni(ii) and cu(h) ion uptakes among the materials tested. (c) 2002 elsevier science ltd. all rights reserved.
wastewater reuse in on-site wastewater treatment: bacteria and virus movement in unsaturated flow through sand filter. in on-site wastewater treatment plants, effluents are pre-treated by septic tank and treated by soil infiltration or sand filtration systems, with unsaturated flow conditions. these systems remove efficiently carbon, nitrogen and suspended solids. but for microbial pollution, the treatment efficiency depends on the hydrodynamic behaviour and filtering media characteristics. contamination of superficial water and groundwater due to pathogenic viruses and pathogenic bacteria is responsible for many diseases. the objective of this study is to approach the mechanisms and operating conditions to control bacteria and virus release in the environment. experiments were carried out on reactors of different length packed with sand. hydraulic load of 90 cm.d(-1) with a pulse periodic flow was used. the influence of chemical composition of the solution on the treatment efficiency has also been studied. for the first time, the residence time distribution (rtd) has been studied using a conservative tracer (ki), to determine the main hydrodynamic parameters. for the second time, the rtd with bacterial and viral tracers (e coli, bacteriophage ms2) was applied, with the aim to define microbial behaviour in filtering media, including adsorption and filtration phenomena. this work allowed us to determine retardation factors according to the hydraulic loads and chemical composition.
mechanisms of cr(iii) and cr(vi) removal from aqueous solutions by sugar beet pulp. the removal of three- and hexavalent chromidium from aqueous solutions using sugar beet pulp as biosorbent substrate was performed. the kinetics of cr(iii) and cr(vi) removal were studied at 20.0 +/- 0.5 degreesc and under various experimental conditions. the cr(iii) ions were adsorbed onto the biosorbent by ion-exchange mechanism with ca2+ cations. the influence of solution ph was found to greatly affect the adsorption efficiency of cr(vi). cr(vi) removal was largely involved in a reduction mechanism with the appearance of cr(iii) ions in the solution.
cadmium and lead adsorption by a natural polysaccharide in mf membrane reactor: experimental analysis and modelling. in the present work, ph2+ and cd2+ adsorption onto a natural polysaccharide has been studied in membrane reactors. the process involves a stirred semi-batch reactor for the adsorption step and a microfiltration (mf) process in order to confine the particles. due to their lower affinity for the biosorbent, cd2+ ions were found to breakthrough the process faster than pb2+ cations. the experimental results showed the technical feasibility of the pilot. a mass balance model based on the langmuir equilibrium isotherm was used to describe the adsorption process. this relation is able to predict experimental data under different operating conditions: the adsorbent and metal concentrations, and the permeate flow rate. based on these results, it is demonstrated that the biosorbent studied represents an interesting low-cost solution for the treatment of metal ions polluted waters. (c) 2003 elsevier science ltd. all rights reserved.
rare earth elements removal by microbial biosorption: a review. this paper reviews published work on the sorption of rare earth elements by microbial biomass. in a first part, the biosorption capacities and the various experimental conditions performed in batch reactor experiments are compared. secondly, sorption modelling generally used in biosorption studies are described. thirdly, the microbial cell wall characteristics of the metallic ion binding sites are considered. from these observations it seems that the important functional groups for metallic ion fixation are the carboxyl and the phosphate moieties. moreover, the competing effect of various ions like aluminium, iron, glutamate, sulphate etc. is described. finally, some adsorption results of the rare earth elements in dynamic reactors are presented.
formulation of biofiltration packing materials: essential nutriment release for the biological treatment of odorous emissions. biofiltration is a current biological gas treatment technology extensively used for the treatment of polluted air. the advantages of this cleaning technique are high - superficial area best-suited for poor water solubility compounds treatment, ease of operation and low operating costs. it involves a filter bed serving both as carrier for the microorganisms and as nutrient supplier. in this study, two types of material were formulated with an organic binder to compare two different nitrogen sources: ammonium phosphate or urea phosphate. the obtained supports were tested in terms of cohesion capacities in water, bulk density moisture retention capacity, dissolving rate of the mineral elements (carbonate, phosphorus, calcium, nitrogen) and for the ph regulation. the results show that the binder gives important cohesion capacities to the material even in drastic conditions (material submerged in water) and allows a low diffused release for different elements. therefore, formulated packing materials present interesting properties for biofiltration processes.
lead removal by a natural polysaccharide in membrane reactors. industrial wastewaters often contain heavy metal ions that are toxic to many living species. therefore, economic treatment methods are investigated, involving the sorption of metal ions onto wastes or natural materials. in the present work, the ability of sugar beet pulp, a common waste of the sugar industry, to remove pb2+ polluted waters is investigated. the kinetic and equilibrium experiments were performed in batch reactor in order to determine the pb2+ adsorption mechanisms onto the polysaccharide. the dynamic studies of pb2+ fixation onto the natural polysaccharide involve an adsorption reactor coupled with microfiltration membrane in order to confine the adsorbent particles. a mass balance model based on the langmuir equilibrium isotherm was used to describe the pb2+ breakthrough curves. this model successfully simulated the entire breakthrough curves whatever the operating conditions used. it provides a useful tool for process simulation and optimisation.
competitive adsorption of metals and organics onto a low cost natural polysaccharide. metals removal onto a low-cost natural polysaccharide is performed. firstly, some specific characteristics of adsorbent are determined. potentiometric titrations of the sorbent have been realised. the values of the point of zero net proton charge (pznpc) and the cation exchange capacity (cec) deduced from these experiments have given respectively ph=5 and 0.575 meq g(-1). secondly, sorption of cations from single metallic solution, have been performed and the equilibrium fixation capacities are 0.37 mmol g(-1) for pb2+, 0.28 mmol g(-1) for cu2+ and 0.2 mmol g(-1) for ni2+. in multi-metals solutions of equimolar concentration, ni2+ ions present the greatest fixation decrease in the presence of the two other cations (-61%), pb2+ and cu2+ seem to compete similarly. in the presence of a constant organic load composed of either benzaldehyde, benzoic acid or phenol and expressed as 100 mg l(-1) total organic carbon (toc), benzoic acid induces the largest reduction of the copper equilibrium fixation capacity (-30%).
interactions of natural aminated polymers with different species of arsenic at low concentrations: application in water treatment. in the present work, the interactions between the amine functionnal groups present in chitosan, a natural polysaccharide and different species of inorganic arsenic are studied. depending of the n-deacetylation rate, chitosan provides amine functions that could be protonated and shows interesting affinities to adsorb oxyanions of arsenic in solution. two species, arsenate (asv) and arsenite (asiii), have been tested at ph 5, and commercial chitosan and chitin were used. kinetics have been carried out at two initial concentrations (50 and 500 mu g/l) and different temperatures fixed between 4 to 40 degrees c. the results have shown the reaction is very fast, and consequently, the equilibrium times are short (30 min in the best case). experimental data are well fitted with a first order kinetic model. in a second part, isotherms have been performed with an as concentration range of 10 to 500 mu g/l and 0.5 g/l of biosorbent. maximum adsorption capacities, deduced from the langmuir model, range between 260 mu g/g at 40 degrees c and 730 mu g/g at 4 degrees c. finally the fixation mechanism could be described by an ion exchange reaction between the protonated amine moities of the chitosan and the arsenate anion in solution.
input device selection and interaction configuration with icon. this paper describes icon, a novel editor designed to configure a set of input devices and connect them to actions into a graphical interactive application. icon allows physically challenged users to connect alternative input devices and/or configure their interaction techniques according to their needs. it allows skilled users - graphic designers or musicians for example - to configure any icon aware application to use their favorite input devices and interaction techniques (bimanual, voice enabled, etc.). icon works with java swing and requires applications to describe their interaction styles in terms of icon modules. by using icon, users can adapt more deeply than before their applications and programmers can easily provide extensibility to their applications.
the svgl toolkit: enabling fast rendering of rich 2d graphics. as more and more powerful graphical processors be- come available on mainstream computers, it becomes possible to investigate the design of visually rich and fast interactive applications. in this article, we present s vgl , a graphical toolkit that enables programmers and design- ers of interactive applications to benefit from this power. the toolkit is based on a scene graph which is translated into an optimized display graph. after describing the algorithms used to display the scene, we show that the toolkit is two to fifty times faster than similar toolkits.
the input configurator toolkit: towards high input adaptability in interactive applications. this article describes icon (input configurator), an input management system that enables interactive applications to achieve a high level of input adaptability. we define input adaptability as the ability of an interactive application to exploit alternative input devices effectively and offer users a way of adapting input interaction to suit their needs. we describe several examples of interaction techniques implemented using icon with little or no support from applications that are hard or impossible to implement using regular gui toolkits.
flattening 3d objects using silhouettes. one important research area in non-photorealistic rendering is to obtain silhouettes. there are many methods to obtain silhouettes from 3d models and raster structures, but they are limited in their ability to draw stylized silhouettes with complete flexibility. these limitations do not exist in illustration, as each element is plane and the interaction between them can be eliminated locating each one in a different layer. this is the approach that we present in this paper: a 3d model is flatted in plane elements ordered in space, which allows us to draw the silhouettes with total flexibility.
local search with constraint propagation and conflict-based heuristics. in this paper, we introduce a new solving algorithm for constraint satisfaction problems (csp). it performs an overall local search helped with a domain filtering technique to prune the search space. conflicts detected during filtering are used to guide the search. first experiments with a tabu version of the algorithm have shown good results on hard instances of open shop scheduling problems. it competes well with the best highly specialized algorithms.
instantiating and detecting design patterns: putting bits and pieces together. null
no java without caffeine ― a tool for dynamic analysis of java programs. null
fourth international workshop on integration of ai and or techniques in constraint programming for combinatorial optimisation problems (cp-ai-or). null
solving dynamic timetabling problems as dynamic resource constrained project scheduling problems using new constraint programming tools. null
combining constraint programming and local search to design new powerful heuristics. null
visexp: visualizing constraint solver dynamics using explanations. null
decomposition and learning for a hard real-time task allocating problem. null
interactively solving school timetabling problems using extensions of constraint programming. timetabling problems have been frequently studied due to their wide range of applications. however, they are often solved manually because of the lack of appropriate computer tools. although many approaches mainly based on local search or constraint programming seem to have been quite successful in recent years, they are often highly dedicated to specific problems and encounter difficulties to take the dynamic and over-constrained nature of such problems. we were confronted with such an over-constrained and dynamic problem in our institution. this paper deals with a timetabling system based on constraint programming with the use of explanations to offer a dynamic behaviour and to allow automatic relaxations of constraints. our tool has successfully answered the needs of the current planner by providing solutions in a few minutes instead of a week of manual design.we present in this paper the techniques used, the results obtained and a discussion on the effects of the automation of the timetabling process.
constraint programming for software engineering. null
special issue constraint programming. null
markovian bounds on functions of finite markov chains. in this paper, we obtain markovian bounds on a function of a homogeneous discrete time markov chain. for deriving such bounds, we use well known results on stochastic majorization of markov chains and the rogers-pitman's lumpability criterion. the proposed method of comparison between functions of markov chains is not equivalent to generalized coupling method of markov chains although we obtain same kind of majorization. we derive necessary and sufficient conditions for existence of our markovian bounds. we also discuss the choice of the geometric invariant related to the lumpability condition that we use.
comparison and aggregation of max-plus linear systems. we study linear systems in the max-plus algebra, where the basic operations are maximum and addition. we define a preorder to compare the state vectors of max-plus linear systems with the same dimension. we provide two algebraic methods to get bounds (with respect to this preorder) on the state vectors of a lumped max-plus linear system. the first method is based on the strong lumpability. the second method is based on the coherency property, which also allows one to provide bounds on the state vectors of the original linear system from those for the lumped system. we provide the algorithms to compute all the proposed bounds. we show that they can be used for models with a large state index set by means of a time and space complexity analysis.
strong stabilizability for a class of linear time delay systems of neutral type. we consider the strong stabilizability, i.e. asymptotic non-exponential stabilizability, problem for a class of neutral type systems. a constructive solution of the feedback law is given, without the derivative of the localized delayed state. our results are based on an abstract theorem on the strong stabilizability of contractive systems in hilbert space. the paper is an extended version of the article published in "applied mathematics letters", vol. 18, 4 (2005), pp. 463--469, cf. hal-00819335-v1.
on a class of strongly stabilizable systems of neutral type. we consider the strong stabilizability problem for delayed system of neutral type. for simplicity the case of one delay in state is studied. we separate a class of such systems and give a constructive solution of the problem in this case, without the derivative of the localized delayed state. our results are based on an abstract theorem on the strong stabilizability of contractive systems in hilbert space. an illustrating example is also given.
weak structure at infinity and row-by-row decoupling for linear delay systems. we consider the row-by-row decoupling problem for linear delay systems and show some close connections between the design of a decoupling controller and some particular structures of delay systems, namely the so-called weak structure at infinity. the realization by static state feedback of decoupling precompensators is studied, in particular, generalized state feedback laws which may incorporate derivatives of the delayed new reference.
on exponential stabilizability of linear neutral systems. in this paper, we deal with linear neutral functional differential systems. using an extended state space and an extended control operator, we transform the initial neutral system in an infinite dimensional linear system. we give a sufficient condition for admissibility of the control operator $b$, conditions under which operator $b$ can be acceptable in order to work with controllability and stabilizability. necessary and sufficient conditions for exact controllability are provided; in terms of a gramian of controllability $n(\mu)$. assuming admissibility and exact controllability, a feedback control law is defined from the inverse of the operator $n(\mu)$ in order to stabilize exponentially the closed loop system. in this case, the semigroup generated by the closed loop system has an arbitrary decay rate.
on decoupling of linear time delay systems by generalized output feedback. we consider the row-by-row decoupling problem for linear delay systems by output feedback. the characterization of the solvability of this problem is given in terms of some easily checkable structural conditions. the main contribution is, in particular, to use generalized output feedback laws which may incorporate derivatives of the delayed new reference.
generalized riesz basis property in the analysis of neutral type systems. the functional differential equation of neutral type is studied. we consider the corresponding operator model in hilbert space m2 = cn × l2(−1, 0;cn) and prove that there exists a sequence of invariant finite-dimensional subspaces which constitute a riesz basis in m2. we also give an example emphasizing that the generalized eigenspaces do not form a riesz basis.
stability analysis of neutral type systems in hilbert space. the asymtoptic stability properties of neutral type systems are studied mainly in the critical case when the exponential stability is not possible. we consider an operator model of the system in hilbert space and use recent results on the existence of a riesz basis of invariant finite-dimensional subspaces in order to verify its dissipativity. the main results concern the conditions of asymptotic non exponential stability. we show that the property of asymptotic stability is not determinated only by the spectrum of the system but essentially depends on the geometric spectral characteristic of its main neutral term. moreover, we present an example of two systems of neutral type which have both the same spectrum in the open left-half plane and the main neutral term but one of them is asymptotically stable while the other is unstable.
spectroscopic measurement of plume mission from femtosecond laser ablation. null
modelling and monitoring of correlated faults in redundant computer control systems. null
forecasting risk analysis for supply chains with intermittent demand. the paper focuses on the forecasting risk analysis in the supply chains with the intermittent demand, which is typical for the inventory management of the "slow moving items" such as service parts or high-priced capital goods. the adopted demand model is based on the generalised beta-binomial distribution, which is capable to incorporate the additive distortions in the demand historical records as parameters. for this settings, there are proposed explicit expressions for the forecasting risk and the prediction function, which minimises the error impact on the risk. the efficiency of the proposed approach is confirmed by computer simulation and is illustrated by an application example for forecasting of the intermittent demand values for car spare parts.
kinematic aspects of a robot-positioner system in an arc welding application. this paper focuses on the kinematic control of a redundant robotic system taking into account particularities of the arc welding technology. the considered system consists of a 6-axis industrial robot (welding tool manipulator) and a 2-axis welding positioner (workpiece manipulator) that is intended to optimise a weld joint orientation during the technological process. the particular contribution of the paper lies in the area of the positioner inverse kinematics, which is a key issue of such system off-line programming and control. it has been proposed a novel formulation and a closed-form solution of the inverse kinematic problem that deals with the explicit definition of the weld joint orientation relative to the gravity. similar results have also been obtained for the known problem statement that is based on a unit vector transformation. for both the cases, a detailed investigation of the singularities and uniqueness-existence topics have been carried out. the presented results are implemented in a commercial software package and verified for real-life applications in the automotive industry.
multiobjective optimization of robot motion for laser cutting applications. this paper focuses on the enhancement of automatic robot programming techniques for laser cutting applications. such technology has already gained essential industrial acceptance, but its application for small lot production is limited by the tedious and time-consuming process of robot programming. currently, even sophisticated graphical simulation systems do not allow optimization of robot motion using multiple criteria, nor does it take into account redundancy caused by the tool axial symmetry. the particular contribution of this paper lies in the area of multiobjective optimization of robot motions via graph representation of the search space and dynamic programming procedures. it presents algorithms that allow generation of smooth manipulator trajectories within acceptable time, simultaneously considering kinematics, collision and singularities constraints of the robotic system, as well as the limitations of the robot control units. the efficiency of the algorithms has been carefully investigated via computer simulation. the presented results are implemented in a commercial software package and verified for real-life applications in the automotive industry.
poincare-chetayev equations and flexible multi-body systems. this article is devoted to the dynamics of flexible multi-body systems and to their links with a fundamental set of equations discovered by h. poincaré one hundred years ago [1]. these equations, called "poincaré-chetayev equations", are today known to be the foundation of the lagrangian reduction theory. starting with the extension of these equations to a cosserat medium, we show that the two basic sets of equations used in flexible multi-body dynamics. the generalized newton-euler model of flexible multi-body systems in the floating frame approach and the partial differential equations of the nonlinear geometrically exact theory in the galilean approach, are poincaré-chetayev equations.
neutron and light charged particle production in neutron or proton‐induced reaction on iron, lead and uranium at intermediate energy (20 to 200 mev). the process of particle emission in the pre‐equilibrium stage has a very important contribution in this energy region and several approaches have been proposed to explain it. their prediction power must be tested using comparison with the data for a variety of configurations. calculations have been done using the exciton model and two main approaches proposed to improve its predictive power for complex particle emission. data reported in this work allow the extension to higher energies of databases that are now limited to energies around 60 mev. together with other experimental results available in the literature they allow a more global view on the capabilities of each approach. © 2005 american institute of physics.
a moving cable simulator for robotics. null
finite element of slender beams in finite transformations a geometrically exact approach. null
fast generation of attractive trajectories for an under-actuated satellite, application to feedback control design. null
flexible links manipulators : from modelling to control. null
flexible multibody dynamics based on nonlinear euler-bernoulli kinematics. null
spiraclock: a continuous and non-intrusive display for upcoming events. in this paper, we present spiraclock, a new visualization technique for nearby events. spiraclock fills a gap between static calendar displays and pop-up reminders by giving the user a continuous and non-intrusive feedback on nearby events. events are displayed inside an analog clock that can be used as a regular computer clock. we used spiraclock for displaying bus schedules, and collected user feedback.
the magglite post-wimp toolkit: draw it, connect it and run it. this article presents magglite, a toolkit and sketch-based interface builder allowing fast and interactive design of post-wimp user interfaces. magglite improves design of advanced uis thanks to its novel mixed-graph architecture that dynamically combines scene-graphs with interaction- graphs. scene-graphs provide mechanisms to describe and produce rich graphical effects, whereas interaction-graphs allow expressive and fine-grained description of advanced interaction techniques and behaviors such as multiple pointers management, toolglasses, bimanual interaction, gesture, and speech recognition. both graphs can be built interactively by sketching the ui and specifying the interaction using a dataflow visual language. communication between the two graphs is managed at runtime by components we call interaction access points. while developers can extend the toolkit by refining built-in generic mechanisms, ui designers can quickly and interactively design, prototype and test advanced user interfaces by applying the magglite principle: "draw it, connect it and run it".
toward creative 3d modeling: an architects' sketches study. this paper describes our methodology in providing designers with a new advanced 3d modeling human-computer interaction. the main project - called gina, a french acronym for interactive and natural geometry - expect to introduce new intuitive and creative 3d modeling tools, relying on 2d perspective drawing reconstruction. we present here the user study we conducted and the implications of this study on the interface of gina.
extensions of an integrated approach for multi-resource shop scheduling. in a previous work, we proposed an integrated approach for a rather general shop scheduling problem, with multiresource, flexibility, and nonlinear routings. in this paper, we want to overcome some of the limitations of the approach. in particular, an operation that needs several resources might not need all the resources during its entire processing time. our first extension allows a resource to be released before the end of the operation. the second extension considers the fact that, for a given operation, one might have to prevent a set of incompatible resources to be chosen.
local energy efficiency and demand-side management activities in france. recent french political decisions have tended to increase responsibilities for local authorities regarding energy issues. the main frames, which should be the basis for local energy policies and energy efficiency (ee) activities, have been identified. however, past experience has shown that theoretical opportunities do not necessarily lead to actions. this paper compiles an inventory of the local ee activities in france in order to provide an overview of what has been done from 2000 to 2004. this study indicates firstly, what kinds of actions have been done and secondly, whether the local dimension mattered. the analysis of the local dimension was made using criteria defined from the analysis of the theoretical context. the inventory also enables the definition of a practical typology for ee actions, useful for benchmarking works, for the definition of specific objectives, and then for evaluation. difficulties encountered in collecting data show the need for information systems, which could help for structuring action plans and for making evaluations. this process could take advantage of the future “white certificates” framework, which will change the way actions are reported. moreover, this paper emphasises the importance of local authorities involved in 75% of the activities encountered. an evolution towards increasing involvement and transverse actions is observed, with twice as many actions taking into account the local context between 2002 and 2004. a good reason to look at the actual trends.
an experimental study of knock in a natural gas fuelled spark ignition engine. null
a method to determine biogas composition for combustion control. this paper presents a methodology for a rapid determination of biogas composition using easily detectable physical properties. as biogas is mainly composed of three constituents, it is possible to determine its composition by measuring two physical properties and using specific ternary diagrams. the first part of the work deals with the selection of two physical properties, which are easy and inexpensive to measure, from a group comprising thermal conductivity, viscosity and speed of sound. then, in the second part, a model to express these properties in terms of ternary composition is presented. it is demonstrated that the composition of a ternary gas mixture can be determined with good precision using the above. the model is applied to specific situations such as the online determination of the lower heating value of biogas without any complicated apparatus like calorimeters or batch techniques (gas chromatographs). the error on the lower heating value and wobbe index of biogas is less than 1% even when taking into account other constituents not specified in the ternary diagram like oxygen. the effect of small errors in the measurement of physical properties has also been highlighted.
a diesel engine thermal transient simulation : coupling between a combustion model and a thermal model. null
characterisation of a syngas diesel fueled ci engines. null
modeling of in-cylinder pressure oscillations under knocking conditions: introduction to pressure envelope curve. null
method for determining at least one energetic property of a gas fuel mixture by measuring physical properties of the gas mixture. null
method for defining at least one power property of gas fuel mixture by measuring physical properties of a gas mixture. null
thermoeconomic analysis based on energy structure for chp. this paper proposes a unified comparison method for the calculations of thermodynamic efficiencies applied to combined heat and power (chp) plants. two new dimensionless indices are introduced. they are used to estimate the influence of technical and economical features on the profitability of a chp plant. a case of a chp installation by internal combustion engine is treated as a practical application.
determination of the combustion properties of natural gases by pseudo-constituents. this paper presents a methodology for a rapid determination of important natural gas combustion properties (lower heating value, wobbe index and the stoichiometric air-fuel ratio) using easily detectable physical properties. it is possible to determine natural gas composition by measuring two physical properties and using specific ternary diagrams (ch4-c2h6-c3h8 and ch4-c2h6-n2). the first part of the work deals with the selection of two physical properties from a group comprising thermal conductivity, refraction index, and speed of sound. then, in the second part, a sensor using the best couple of physical property is used to determine the ternary pseudo-constituents of the gas mixture. the model and the sensor are applied to specific situations such as the online determination of lhv. the error on the combustion properties of natural gas is less than 1% over the gases considered in the present study and over about 20 typical gases supplied over europe. the effect of small errors in the measurement of physical properties has also been highlighted.
thermodynamic analysis of tri-generation with absorption chilling machine. the paper presents a method for analysing tri-generation systems. the authors have focused on solutions of tri-generation plants based on gas turbine or internal combustion engine with absorption chilling machine. several technical criteria have been defined. a thermodynamic analysis has been performed for the case of tri-generation with an absorption chilling machine. from the thermodynamic point of view there have been established the limits for the best energetic performance of tri-generation. the dependence of different technical criteria on each other has also been analysed. a certain case of a tri-generation plant has been analysed using this method. the dependence of the energetic performance of tri-generation on different technical criteria has also been studied.
fuel savings and co2 emissions for tri-generation systems. the paper presents a method for analysing previous termtri-generation systemsnext term from the point of view of previous termfuel savingsnext term and environmental impact. the authors have focused on the solution of previous termtri-generationnext term plants based on gas turbine or internal combustion engine with an absorption chilling machine. criteria that characterise the previous termfuel savings and co2 emissions of tri-generationnext term have been defined. an analysis has been performed for the case of previous termtri-generationnext term with an absorption chilling machine. the mathematical dependence of previous termfuel savings and co2 emissionsnext term on different technical criteria has been analysed. for a certain case there has been plotted the variation of previous termfuel savingsnext term as a dependence of technical criteria. the graphs highlight the range of technical criteria with better previous termfuel savingsnext term for previous termtri-generationnext term than for separate production. there has been established the order of influence of different technical criteria on previous termfuel savings.next term.
online determination of natural gas properties. methane number and lower heating value (lhv) of natural gas are determined by the online measurement of thermal conductivity at two different temperatures. natural gas is first considered as a ternary mixture of the most important components. a pseudo-ternary composition can then be calculated, using the thermal conductivity formula for mixtures derived from kinetic theory. a non-linear system is solved numerically using the newton-raphson method. a sensor based on thermal conductivity measurement has been developed and tested successfully for many natural gas compositions.
thermal efficiency and environmental performances of a biogas-diesel stationary engine. municipal and agricultural waste, and sludge from wastewater treatment represent a large source of pollution. gaseous fuels can be produced from waste decomposition and then used to run internal combustion engines for power and heat generation. the present paper focuses on thermal efficiency and environmental performances of dual-fuel engines fuelled with biogas. experiments have been carried out on a lister-petter single cylinder diesel engine, modified for dual-fuel operation. natural gas was first used as the primary fuel. an empirical correlation was determined to predict the engine load for a given mass flow rate for the pilot fuel (diesel) and for the primary fuel (natural gas). that correlation has then been tested for three synthesized biogas compositions. computations were performed and the error was estimated to be less than 10%. additionally, nox and co2 contents were measured from exhaust gases. based on exhausts gas temperature, the activation energy and the pre-exponential factor of an arrhenius law were then proposed, resulting in a simpler mean to predict nox.
a model of energetic interactions between a car engine, the cabin heating system and the electrical system. reduction of internal combustion engines fuel consumption is permanently researched. it leads automotive companies towards global energetic simulation tools to describe the interactions between the engine and the energy consumer systems. valeo with the emn department of energetic, develop a vehicle energy management tool. it will be able to describe the interactions between: engine, the car cabin heating system, electrical systems and other energy consumers (additional heating system, air conditioning system) implied in the vehicle operation. the first results given by the simulation model have approached quite accurately, the coolant loop warm-up curve, measured during a vehicle test in wind tunnel. the model solves the energy balance on the oil and coolant loops and computes: the heat flux from engine to coolant, the distribution of coolant flows in branches, the thermal exchanges involved in the heater core, the cooling radiator and the oil cooler.
knock rating of gaseous fuels in a single cylinder spark ignition engine. this paper presents the determination of knock rating of gaseous fuels in a single cylinder engine. the first part of the work deals with an application of a standard method for the knock rating of gaseous fuels. the service methane number (smn) is compared with the standard methane number (mn) calculated from the standard avl software methane (which corresponds to the mn measured on a cooperative fuel research engine). then, in the second part, the 'mechanical' resistance to knock of our engine is highlighted by means of the methane number requirement (mnr). a single cylinder lister petter engine was modified to run as a spark ignition engine with a fixed compression ratio and an adjustable spark advance. effects of engine settings on the mnr are deduced from experimental data and compared extensively with previous studies. using the above, it is then possible to adapt the engine settings for optimal knock control and performances. the error on the smn and mnr stands beneath ±2 mn units over the gases and engine settings considered.
partial behavioral reflection: spatial and temporal selection of reification. behavioral reflection is a powerful approach for adapting the behavior of running applications. in this paper we present and motivate partial behavioral reflection, an approach to more efficient and flexible behavioral reflection. we expose the spatial and temporal dimensions of such reflection, and propose a model of partial behavioral reflection based on the notion of hooksets. in the context of java, we describe a reflective architecture offering appropriate interfaces for static and dynamic configuration of partial behavioral reflection at various levels, as well as reflex, an open reflective extension for java implementing this architecture. reflex is the first extension that fully supports partial behavioral reflection in a portable manner, and that seamlessly integrates load-time and runtime behavioral reflection. the paper shows preliminary benchmarks and examples supporting the approach. the examples, dealing with the observer pattern and asynchronous communication via transparent futures, also show the interest of partial behavioral reflection as a tool for open dynamic aspect-oriented programming.
web cache prefetching as an aspect{:} towards a dynamic-weaving based solution. given the high proportion of http traffic in the internet, web caches are crucial to reduce user access time, network latency, and bandwidth consumption. prefetching in a web cache can further enhance these benefits. nevertheless, to achieve the best performance, the prefetching policy must match user and web server characteristics. this implies that new prefetching policies must be loaded dynamically as needs change. most web caches are large c programs, and thus adding a single prefetching policy to an existing web cache is a daunting task. providing multiple policies is even more complex. the essential problem is that prefetching concerns crosscut the cache structure. aspect-oriented programming is a natural technique to address this issue. nevertheless, existing approaches do not provide dynamic weaving of aspects targeted toward c applications. in this paper, we present $\mu$dyner, which addresses these needs. $\mu$dyner also provides lower overhead for aspect invocation than other dynamic approaches, thus meeting the performance needs of web caches.
a model of components with non-regular protocols. behavioral specifications which are integrated into component interfaces are an important means for the correct construction of component-based systems. currently, such specifications are typically limited to finite-state protocols because more expressive notions of protocol do not support reasonable basic composition properties, such as compatibility and substitutability. in this paper, we present first results of the integration into component interfaces of a notion of non-regular protocols based on {``}non-regular process types{''} introduced by puntigam. more concretely, we present three contributions: (i) a motivation of the usefulness of non-regular protocols in the context of peer-to-peer applications, (ii) a language for non-regular protocols and an outline of a suitable formal definition, (iii) a discussion of basic composition properties and an analysis of how to adequately integrate protocol-modifying operators in the model.
analysing mailboxes of asynchronous communicating components. asynchronous communications are prominent in distributed and mobile systems. often concurrent systems consider an abstract point of view with synchronous communications. however it seems more realistic and finer to consider asynchronous communicating systems, since it provides a more primitive communication protocol and maximize the concurrency. several languages and models have been defined using this communication mode: agent, actor, mobile computation, and so on. here we reconsider a previous component model with full data types and synchronous communications with an asynchronous flavour. the dynamic behaviour of a component is represented as a structured symbolic transition system with mailboxes. we also present an algorithm devoted to an analysis of the dynamic behaviour of the system. this algorithm decides if the system has bound mailboxes and computes the reachable mailbox contents of the system. the component model and the algorithm are illustrated on a flight system reservation.
a framework for the gat temporal logic. null
on the automatic evolution of an os kernel using temporal logic and aop. automating software evolution requires both identifying precisely the affected program points and selecting the appropriate modification at each point. this task is particularly complicated when considering large pieces of software, even when the modifications appear to be systematic. we illustrate this situation in the context of evolving the linux kernel to support bossa, an event-based framework for process-scheduler development. to support bossa, events must be added at points scattered throughout the kernel. in each case, the choice of event depends on properties of one or a sequence of instructions. to describe precisely the choice of event, we propose to guide the event insertion by using a set of rules, amounting to an aspect, that describes the control-flow contexts in which each event should be generated. in this paper, we present our approach and describe the set of rules that allow proper event insertion. these rules use temporal logic to describe sequences of instructions that require events to be inserted. we also give an overview of an implementation that we have developed to automatically perform this evolution.
a translation of uml components into formal specifications. null
dynamic configuration of software product lines in archjava. this paper considers the use of a state-of-the-art, general-purpose, component-programming language, specifically archjava, to implement software product lines. component-programming languages provide a more straightforward mapping between components as assets and components as implementation artifacts. however, guaranteeing that the implementation conforms to the architecture raises new issues with respect to dynamic configuration. we show how this can be solved in archjava by making the components auto-configurable, which corresponds to replacing components by component generators. such a scheme can be implemented in various ways, in particular with a two-stage generator. this solution goes beyond the initial technical archjava issue and complements the standard static generative approach to software product line implementation.
the bossa framework for scheduler development. null
checking asynchronously communicating components using symbolic transition systems. null
tarantula{:} killing driver bugs before they hatch. null
on the design of a domain-specific language for os process-scheduling extensions. null
bossa nova{:} introducing modularity into the bossa domain-specific language. null
recovering binary class relationships: putting icing on the uml cake. null
a pragmatic study of binary class relationships. null
automating adaptive image generation for medical devices using aspect-oriented programming. null
applying the b formal method to the bossa domain-specific language. null
formal methods meet domain specific languages. null
a framework for simplifying the development of kernel schedulers: design and performance evaluation. null
language design for implementing process scheduling hierarchies. null
supporting dynamic crosscutting with partial behavioral reflection{:} a case study. null
a crosscut language for control-flow. null
wildcat: a generic framework for context-aware applications. we present wildcat, an extensible java framework to ease the creation of context-aware applications. wildcat provides a simple yet powerful dynamic model to represent an application's execution context. the context information can be accessed by application programmers through two complimentary interfaces: synchronous requests (pull mode) and asynchronous notifications (push mode). internally, wildcat is designed to support different kinds of extensions, from the simple configuration of the default generic implementation to completely new implementations tailored to specific needs. a given application can mix different implementations for different aspects of its context while only depending on wildcat simple and unified api.
towards a framework for self-adaptive component-based applications. given today's fast pace of technological evolutions and diversity of computing platforms, building applications which can work in such a wide range of systems is becoming more and more challenging. to deal with this situation, applications must be \emph{self-adaptive}, that is adapt themselves to their environment and its evolutions. the goal of our works is to enable systematic development of self-adaptive component-based applications using the separation of concerns principle: we consider \emph{adaptation to a specific execution context and its evolutions} as a concern which should be treated separately from the rest of an application. in this paper, we first present the general approach we propose and the corresponding development framework and tools we are developing to support it. then, in order to validate this approach, we show how a small component-based application can be made self-adaptive using our approach.
from (meta) objects to aspects : from java to aspectj. null
towards generative programming. null
supporting aop using reflection. null
are the complexation properties of soluble humic substances and mineral -bound humic substances identical? an attempt of understanding using the model system alumina/polyacrylic acid/m(iii) (m=eu, cm). null
challenging explanations for global constraints. null
on-line resources allocation for atm networks with rerouting. null
visualizing explanations to exhibit dynamic structure in constraint problems. null
peeking in solver strategies using explanations -- visualization of dynamic graphs for constraint programming. null
implementing explained global constraints. null
decomposition and learning for a real time task allocation problem. we present a cooperation technique using an accurate management of nogoods to solve a hard real-time problem which consists in assigning periodic tasks to processors in the context of fixed priorities preemptive scheduling. the problem is to be solved off-line and our solving strategy is related to the logic based benders decomposition. a master problem is solved using constraint programming whereas subproblems are solved with schedulability analysis techniques coupled with an ad hoc nogood computation algorithm. constraints and nogoods are learnt during the process and play a role close to benders cuts.
k-relevant explanations for constraint programming. this paper presents diagnosis tools and interaction-based tools which could help the constraint programming user to interactively develop its applications. the implementation of these tools rely on explanations, and more precisely on k-relevant explanations. an example is given to illustrate k-relevant explanations and to provide concrete situations illustrating the functionalities of our interactive and diagnosis tools.
integrating benders decomposition within constraint programming. null
how to solve allocation problems with constraint programming. null
the tree constraint. null
specialization tools and techniques for systematic optimization of system software. null
a generic reification technique for object-oriented reflective languages. computational reflection is gaining interest in practical applications as witnessed by the use of reflection in the java programming environment and recent work on reflective middleware. reflective systems offer many different reflection programming interfaces, the so-called meta-object protocols (mops). their design is subject to a number of constraints relating to, among others, expressive power, efficiency and security properties. since these constraints are different from one application to another, we should be able to easily provide specially-tailored mops.
the korrigan environment. null
an operational approach to the semantics of classes: application to type checking. null
the gat approach to specify mixed systems. null
checking class schema usefulness. null
temporal logic verifications for uml: the vending machine example. null
a domain-specific language approach to programmable networks. null
computing a lower approximation of the compulsory part of a task with varying duration and varying resource consumption. null
resource allocation in a mobile telephone network~: a constructive repair algorithm. null
an expressive aspect language for system applications with arachne. c applications, in particular those using operating system level services, frequently comprise multiple crosscutting con- cerns: network protocols and security are typical examples of such concerns. while these concerns can partially be addressed during design and implementation of an applica- tion, they frequently become an issue at runtime, e.g., to avoid server downtime. a deployed network protocol might not be sufficiently efficient and may thus need to be re- placed. buffer overflows might be discovered that imply critical breaches in the security model of an application. a prefetching strategy may be required to enhance perfor- mance. while aspect-oriented programming seems attractive in this context, none of the current aspect systems is expres- sive and efficient enough to address such concerns. this paper presents a new aspect system solving these problems. while efficiency considerations have played an important part in the design of the aspect language, the language al- lows aspects to be expressed more concisely than previous approaches. in particular, it allows aspect programmers to quantify over sequences of execution points as well as over alias accesses. we show how the former can be used to modularize the replacement of network protocols and the latter to prevent buffer overflows. we also present an im- plementation of the language as an extension of arachne, a dynamic weaver for c applications. finally, we show eval- uations proving that arachne is fast enough to extend high performance applications, such as the squid web cache.
server protection through dynamic patching. recently, hackers has been developing fast propagat- ing worms exploiting vulnerabilities that had just been dis- closed by security experts. those attacks particularly ex- pose servers: this class of applications is constantly con- nected to the internet and must meet uptime constraints. hence they often run unprotected until the next scheduled update. in this paper, we propose a just-in-time protection for servers based on runtime injection of pre-made patches. the runtime injection permits to deal with uptime con- straints and induces only a minimal overhead over the vul- nerable code and only when a vulnerability is known to ex- ist. the pre-made patches forbid exploitation of most com- mon vulnerabilities (45% of attacks reported by debian se- curity in 2005 affecting c softwares) and allows continuous servicing.
software security patches -- audit, deployment and hot update. due to its ever growing complexity, software is and will probably never be 100% bug-free and secure. therefore in most cases, software companies publish updates regularly. for the lack of time or care, or maybe because stopping an applica- tion is annoying, such updates are rarely, if ever, deployed on users' machines. we propose an integrated tool allowing system administrators to deploy critical security updates on the fly on applications running remotely and without the intervention of the end-user. our approach is based on arachne, an aspect weaving system that dynamically rewrites binary code. hence applications are still running while they are updated. our second tool minerve integrates arachne within the standard updating process: minerve takes a patch produced by diff, a tool that lists textual differences between two versions of a file, and eventually builds a dynamic patch that can later be woven to update the application on the fly. in addition, by translating patches into aspects and thus generating a more abstract presentation of the changes, minerve eases auditing tasks.
an input interaction model for highly configurable multi-device interactive systems. today's applications and tools exclusively rely on mice and keyboards and use them a stereotyped way, and are still ignoring any other interaction paradigm. though importance of input adaptability has been widely recognized, its issues have been very little studied. we propose a new input model based on input configurations. in this model, input devices are freely connected to applications through adapters, and traditional event mechanisms have been replaced by a reactive data-flow paradigm. using this model, we developed the icon (input configurator) input toolkit, which allows to build interactive applications that are fully configurable and that can make use of alternative input device and techniques. with its visual editor, developers can rapidly create by direct manipulation configurations for impoverished or enriched input. power users can then customize those configurations to suit their specific needs.
aeden : an adaptive framework for dynamic distribution over mobile environments. mobile computing is a domain in great expansion. wireless networks (gsm, satellite, etc) and portable information appliances pias (laptops, pdas, cellular phones, etc) are developing very rapidly. more and more mobile users would like to execute their applications with the same quality of service as on their desktop station, whatever their needs in memory and computing power. using such applications in a mobile environment raises new challenges. some of these applications are extremely costly in system and network resources, whereas pias resources are poor and wireless networks offer a very variable quality of connection. in this paper, we propose an adaptive and dynamic distribution of applications on the local environment to overcome the poorness of available resources on pias, and to reduce and regulate variability effects. moreover, due to the variety of distribution policies, we propose a framework providing adaptive distribution policies.
electron energy loss spectroscopy of lixtip4, a possible negative electrode for lithium-ion batteries. null
eels determination of lithium insertion sites in a possible new negative electrode for li-ion battery. null
a column generation approach for a two-stage hybrid flow-shop problem. null
explanation-based repair techniques for solving dynamic scheduling problems. null
solving dynamic rcpsp using explanation-based constraint programming. null
a simulated annealing method for the flow-shop with a new blocking constraint. null
vehicle routing optimization for the pick-up and delivery: application to the transport of personnel on oil platforms. null
single machine customer order scheduling to minimize total weighted late orders. null
customer order scheduling on a single machine with release dates. null
single machine scheduling of jobs with time window dependent processing times. null
two local search approaches for minimizing total weighted tardiness in a job shop with customer orders. null
complexity of flowshop scheduling problems with a new blocking constraint. null
heuristics for the two-stages hybrid flowshop with a new blocking constraint. null
constraint programming for dynamic scheduling problems. null
new tools for solving dynamic timetabling problems. null
conflict-based repair techniques for solving dynamic scheduling problems. null
stable solutions for dynamic project scheduling problems. null
loading aircraft for military operations. null
complexity of flow-shop scheduling problems with a new blocking constraint. null
late quaternary climatic control on erosion and weathering in the eastern tibetan plateau and the mekong basin. null
a generative programming approach to developing dsl compilers. domain-specific languages (dsls) represent a proven approach to raising the abstraction level of programming. they offer high-level constructs and notations dedicated to a domain, structuring program design, easing program writing, masking the intricacies of underlying software layers, and guaranteeing critical properties. on the one hand, dsls facilitate a straightforward mapping between a conceptual model and a solution expressed in a specific programming language. on the other hand, dsls complicate the compilation process because of the gap in the abstraction level between the source and target language. the nature of dsls make their compilation very different from the compilation of common general-purpose languages (gpls). in fact, a dsl compiler generally produces code written in a gpl; low-level compilation is left to the compiler of the target gpl. in essence, a dsl compiler defines some mapping of the high-level information and features of a dsl into the target gpl and underlying layers (e.g., middleware, protocols, objects, ...). this paper presents a methodology to develop dsl compilers, centered around the use of generative programming tools. our approach enables to structure the development of a dsl compiler on facets that represent dimensions of compilation. each facet can then be implemented in a modular way, using aspects, annotations and specialization. because these tools are high level, they match the needs of a dsl, facilitating the development of the dsl compiler, and making it modular and re-targetable. we illustrate our approach with a dsl for telephony services. the structure of the dsl compiler is presented, as well as practical uses of generative tools for some compilation facets.
erosional history of the eastern tibetan plateau since 190 kyr ago: clay mineralogical and geochemical investigations from the southwestern south china sea. null
clay mineral records of east asian monsoon evolution during late quaternary in the southern south china sea. null
monitoring capability indice cm using ewma. null
effect of non-normality on residual-based methods. null
new process capability indices for two quality characteristics. null
introduction of a new selection parameter in genetic algorithm. null
monitoring of unequal length batch processes. null
bivariate process capability indices for non-normal distributions. null
introduction of a new selection parameter in genetic algorithm for constrained reliability problems with several failure modes. null
a comparison of the readability of graphs using node-link and matrix-based representations. null
symbolic bounded analysis for component behavioural protocols. null
a formal component model with explicit symbolic protocols and its implementation in java. null
java implementation of a component model with explicit symbolic protocols. null
control charts for data having a symmetrical distribution with a positive kurtosis. null
an (x/r)-ewma control chart for monitoring the process sample median. null
how to monitor capability index cm using ewma. null
solving dynamic resource constraint project scheduling problems using new constraint programming tools. timetabling problems have been studied a lot over the last decade. due to the complexity and the variety of such problems, most work concern static problems in which activities to schedule and resources are known in advance, and constraints are fixed. however, every timetabling problem is subject to unexpected events (consider for example, for university timetabling problems, a missing teacher, or a slide projector breakdoawn). in such a situation, one has to quickly build a new solution which takes these events into account and which is preferably not too different form the current one. we introduce in this paper constraint-programming based tools for solving dynamic timetabling problems modelled as rcpsp (resource-constrained project scheduling problems). this approach uses explanation-based constraint programming and operational research techniques.
reproducibility of the uptake of u(vi) onto degraded cement pastes and calcium silicate hydrate phases. the u(vi) uptake in degraded cement pastes was undertaken in the laboratories of cea/l3mr and subatech in order to check the reproducibility of the study. two well hydrated cement pastes, cem i (ordinary portland cement, opc) and cem v (blast furnace slag (bfs) and fly ash added to opc) were degraded using similar protocols. equilibrium solutions and solid materials were characterised for three degradation states for each paste. all samples are free of portlandite and the ph of the equilibrated cement solutions vary in the range 9.8–12.2. three calcium silicate hydrate phases (c-s-h) were synthesised in order to compare the sorption properties of degraded cement pastes and of hydrate phases in similar ph conditions. in order to avoid precipitation processes, the operational solubility limit was evaluated before batch experiments. these solubility values vary significantly in the ph range [9–13] with a 2.4×10−7 mol/l minimum at ph close to 10.5. in batch sorption experiments, the distribution ratio rd values are high: 30000–150000 ml/g. the uptake of u(vi) increases when comparing the least and the most degraded cement pastes whereas the initial composition of cement has relatively insensitive effect. sorption isotherms, expressed as a log [u(vi)solid]/ log [u(vi)solution] plots are linear. a slope of 1 is calculated indicating the predominance of sorption processes. as sorption and desorption values are close, the uptake mechanism seems reversible. the rd values measured in c-s-h suspensions are in good agreement with rd values of degraded cement pastes, and c-s-h materials could be one of the cementitious phases which control u(vi) uptake in cement pastes.
herodotus and amathus. null
the versatility of using explanations within constraint programming. constraint programming is a research topic benefiting from many other areas: discrete mathematics, numerical analysis, artificial intelligence, operations research, and formal calculus. it has proven its interest and its efficiency in various domains: combinatorial optimization, scheduling, finance, simulation and synthesis, diagnosis, molecular biology, or geometrical problems. however, some limitations and difficulties remain: designing stable and generic algorithms, handling dynamic problems, opening constraint programming to non-specialists, etc.&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;in this document, we advocate the use of explanations within constraint programming. our aim is two-fold: drawing the big picture about explanations (definition, generation, management and use) and showing that they can help address several issues in constraint programming. we also introduce a new general explanation-based search technique that has been successfully used to design new efficient algorithms. finally, current open issues and research topics in this field are presented.
constraint solving in uncertain and dynamic environments - a survey. this article follows a tutorial, given by the authors on dynamic constraint solving at cp 2003 (ninth international conference on principles and practice of constraint programming) in kinsale, ireland. it aims at offering an overview of the main approaches and techniques that have been proposed in the domain of constraint satisfaction to deal with uncertain and dynamic environments.
constraint programming based column generation for employee timetabling. the employee timetabling problem (etp) is a general class of problems widely encountered in service organizations (such as call centers for instance). given a set of activities, a set of demand curves (specifying the demand in terms of employees for each activity for each time period) the problem consists of constructing a set of work shifts such that each activity is at all time covered by a sufficient number of employees. work shifts can cover many activities and must meet work regulations such as breaks, meals and maximum working time constraints. furthermore, it is often desired to optimize a global objective function such as minimizing labor costs or maximizing a quality of service measure. this paper presents variants of this problem which are modeled with the dantzig formulation. this approach consists of first generating all feasible work shifts and then selecting the optimal set. we propose to address the shift generation problem with constraint satisfaction techniques based on expressive and efficient global constraints such as gcc and regular. the selection problem, which is modeled with an integer linear program, is solved by a standard mip solver for smaller instances and addressed by column generation for larger ones. since a column generation procedure needs to generate only shifts of negative reduced cost, the optimization constraint cost-regular is introduced and described. preliminary experimental results are given on a typical etp.
hybrid constraint programming-integer linear programming approaches for the resource-constrained project scheduling problem. states-of-the-art of the rcpsp and of constraint programming-linear programming hybrid methods.&lt;br /&gt;hybrid approaches of cp and ilp for the rcpsp: lower bounds computation by cp-based lagrangian relaxation; cp-based column generation and cp-based cutting-plane generation.&lt;br /&gt;application of a generic, exact, and non-tree search method, resolution search, proposed by vlasek chvatal. links with dynamic backtracking and nogood learning approaches in cp.
characterization of natural organic matter from various origins (river, sea, soil, lagoon) and its interaction with metallic pollutants. null
status of the muon spectrometer offline software. null
perspectives of the muon offline. null
w production at lhc in the alice experiment. null
presentation of the pwg3 of alice. null
experimental conditions for quarkonia measurements in alice. null
classical yang-mills vacua on $t^{3}$ : explicit constructions. flat connections for unitary gauge groups on a 3--torus with twisted boundary conditions as well as recently discovered periodic nontrivial flat connections with ``nondiagonalizable'' triples of holonomies for higher orthogonal and exceptional groups are constructed explicitly in terms of jacobi theta functions with rational characteristics. the (fractional) chern-simons numbers of these vacuum gauge field configurations are verified by direct computation.
disappearance of flow in heavy-ion collisions for system mass $\geq$ 175. using the qmd model, we study the mass dependence of the disappearance of transverse flow in heavier colliding nuclei. a power law mass dependence is obtained in all cases. our results are in excellent agreement with data. for the first time, we predict the balance energy of u+u around 37-39 mev/nucleon.
dynamics of $k^+$ production in heavy ion collisions close to threshold. in this article the production of $k^+$ at energies close to the threshold is studied in detail. the production mechanisms, the influence of in-medium effects, cross sections, the nuclear equation of state and the dynamics of the nucleons on the kaon dynamics are discussed. a special regard will be taken on the collision of au+au at 1.5 gev, a reaction that has recently been analyzed in detail by experiments performed by the kaos and fopi collaborations at the sis accelerator at gsi.
effect of aqueous acetic, oxalic and carbonic acids on the adsorption of uranium(vi) onto alpha-alumina. the prediction of the migration for radionuclides in geologic media requires a quantitative knowledge of retardation phenomena. for this purpose, the sorption of u(vi) onto a model mineral-–-alumina—is studied here, including the effects of groundwater chemistry: ph and concentrations of small organic ligands (acetate, oxalate and carbonate anions). this work presents experimental evidence for the synergic sorption of uranium(vi) and the small organic ligands, namely sorption of cationic complexes onto alumina. conversely, since its neutral and anionic complexes were not sorbed, u(vi) cation could also be desorbed as a result of the formation of neutral or anionic complexes in the aqueous phase. by using the ion-exchange theory, and a corresponding restricted set of parameters—exchange capacities and thermodynamic equilibrium constants—the whole set of sorption experiments of u(vi) cationic species onto the -alumina was modelled under various chemical conditions.
oxidation and dissolution rates of $uo_2$(s) in carbonate-rich solutions under external alpha irradiation and initially reducing conditions. this paper describes the effects of aqueous carbonate concentrations on the uo2 oxidation and dissolution rates under an alpha beam irradiation in a cyclotron. as solid samples, uo2 colloids were synthesized by nano-particle precipitation. the specific surface area obtained is 85.3 m2/g. all aqueous solutions were buffered in the ph range 8.
correlation between x-ray chemical shift and partial charge in tc(iv) complexes: determination of tc partial charge in $tc_no_y^{(4n-2y)+}$. the chemical shift of the x-ray absorption k-edge of tc(iv) complexes determined by x-ray absorption spectroscopy (xas) measurement was studied. a correlation between edge position (δe) and partial charge on tc atoms (δtc) was determined. this correlation was used to determinate δtc in tcnoy(4n-2y)+. furthermore, a theoretical relation between δtc and the charge of tcnoy(4n-2y)+, was also established and the overall charge of this complex was estimated.
coprecipitation of thorium and lanthanum with $uo_{2+x}$(s) as host phase. coprecipitation may be a significant process in controlling radionuclide release during spent fuel dissolution/reprecipitation in a breached geological disposal site by water. the objective of this work was to study the coprecipitation of thorium and lanthanum with uo2+x(s) as host phase under reducing conditions (pure n2 and eh=−300 mv/she) as a function of ph and [th]/[u+th] or [la]/[u+la] initial concentration ratios. at ph values between 3 to 9, the final concentrations of dissolved th and la were found to be considerably lower than expected if pure phases, th(oh)4(s) and la(oh)3(s) would have been formed. coprecipitation phenomena and formation of solid solutions thyu1-yo2+x'(s) and (u,la)o2+x'(s) are suggested to be responsible for the lower solubility.
hadron production in proton-proton scattering in nexus3. using the recently introduced model nexus 3, we calculate for proton-proton, neutron-proton and antiproton-proton collisions the excitation function of particle yields and of average transverse momenta of different particle species as well as rapidity, x_{f} and transverse momentum distributions. our results are compared with available data in between sqrt{s} = 5 gev and 65 gev. we find for all observables quite nice agreement with data what make this model to a useful tool to study particle production in elementary hadronic reactions.
coins: a constraint-based interactive solving system. this paper describes the coins (constraint-based interactive solving) system: a conflict-based constraint solver. it helps understanding inconsistencies, simulates constraint additions and/or retractions (without any propagation), determines if a given constraint belongs to a conflict and provides diagnosis tools (e.g. why variable v cannot take value val). coins also uses user-friendly representation of conflicts and explanations.
measurement of the mid-rapidity transverse energy distribution from $\sqrt{s_{nn}}=130$ gev au+au collisions at rhic. the first measurement of energy produced transverse to the beam direction at rhic is presented. the mid-rapidity transverse energy density per participating nucleon rises steadily with the number of participants, closely paralleling the rise in charged-particle density, such that e_t / n_ch remains relatively constant as a function of centrality. the energy density calculated via bjorken's prescription for the 2% most central au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn)=130 gev is at least epsilon_bj = 4.6 gev/fm^3 which is a factor of 1.6 larger than found at sqrt(s_nn)=17.2 gev (pb+pb at cern).
heavy-ion physics at lhc. the new conditions which will be reached when lhc will collide lead ions are discussed together with the probes which will become available for studying the properties of the hottest matter ever formed in the laboratory. the experimental requirements and how the lhc experiments, in particular alice, will face the challenges are presented.
baryon - baryon correlations in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$= 62 gev and $\sqrt{s_nn}}$= 200 gev, measured in the star experiment at rhic. particle correlations at small relative velocities can be used to study the space-time evolution of hot and expanding system created in heavy ion collisions. baryon and antibaryon source sizes extracted from baryon-baryon correlations complement the information deduced from the correlation studies of identical pions. correlations of non-identical particles are sensitive also to the space-time asymmetry of their emission. high statistics data set of star experiment allows us to present the results of baryon-baryon correlation measurements at various centralities and energies, as well as to take carefully into account the particle identification probability and the fraction of primary baryons and antibaryons. preliminary results show significant contribution of annihilation channel in baryon-antibaryon correlations.
tight lp bounds for resource constrained project scheduling. null
non identical strange particle correlations in au-au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}=$ 200 gev from the star experiment. information about the space-time evolution of colliding nuclei can be extracted correlating particles emitted from nuclear collisions. the high density of particles produced in the star experiment allows the measurement of non-identical strange particle correlations. due to the absence of coulomb interaction, $p-\lambda$ and $\bar{p}-\lambda$ systems are more sensitive to the source size than $p-p$ pairs. strong interaction potential has been studied using $p-\lambda$, and for the first time, $\bar{p}-\lambda$ pairs. the experimental correlation functions have been described in the frame of a model based on the $p-n$ interaction. the first preliminary measurement of $\pi$ - $\xi$ correlations has been performed, allowing to extract information about the freeze-out time and the space-time asymmetries in particle emission closely related to the transverse radial expansion and decay of resonances.
sorption of cs, ni, pb, eu(iii), am(iii), cm, ac(iii), tc(iv), th, zr, and u(iv) on mx 80 bentonite: an experimental approach to assess model uncertainty. a multi-site surface complexation/ion exchange model for dispersed mx 80 bentonite has been calibrated, considering the dissolution properties of the constituting mineral assemblage, for sorption of a large number of radionuclides, using experimental data from the present study together with well constrained literature data. emphasis was on tri- and tetravalents actinides and fission products and reducing groundwater compositions.
study of the interaction of $seo_3^{2-}$, $i^-$, $cs^+$ and $ni^{2+}$ on consolidated bentonite. null
contribution to the understanding of the transfer of eu (iii) between bacteria and humic substances either free in solution or adsorbed onto a mineral phase. null
evaluation of a new experimental design to investigate the concentration dependent diffusion of radionuclides in compacted bentonite. null
complexation of eu(iiii) by polyacrylic acid either free in solution or sorbed onto alumina. null
radioelement solubility, speciation and solid-solution partitioning in clay systems. null
interaction of eu with alumina-bound polyacrylic acid. sorption, desorption and spectroscopic studies. null
are the complexation properties of soluble humic substances and mineral -bound humic substances identical? an attempt of understanding using the model system alumina/polyacrylic acid/m(iii) (m=eu, cm). the ternary system composed of metal ions (m), humic substances (hs), and mineral phases is actually not understood. among the various equilibria considered, the most difficult to understand is the interaction of m with the mineral-bound hs. it appears actually established that an additive model based on data deduced from binary systems is not applicable. two main reasons are suggested to explain this: the first one invokes the formation of a ternary surface complex where the metal ion is coordinated to both mineral and organic matter functional groups. the second reason raises the problem of using an electrostatic term derived from a model developed for pure mineral oxides for a surface coated by an organic layer. all studies generally consider that sorbed hs and soluble hs behave similarly with respect to m (same complexed species, same mechanistic interaction equilibria). the goal of the work is to check this point using a model ternary system composed of g-alumina, trivalent metal ions m(iii) (m=eu and cm) and polycarboxylic acid (paa). paa is adsorbed on al2o3 prior to m adsorption to study selectively m / sorbed paa (paaads) interaction. in order to neglect eu-al2o3 interaction, the work is performed under conditions where m interaction is dominated by the organic matter (ph=5, maximum organic loading). the characterization of the interaction mechanisms between m and free and sorbed paa is based on sorption/desorption data as well as spectroscopic measurements (trlfs, exafs). the results clearly show a difference for the m sorption on paa and paaads since m speciation and mechanisms appear different in both systems. the origin of this discrepancy may be explained by the difference in paa “structure” in the two systems. when paa is free in solution, in the range of paa concentrations studied, the polymers are independent linear chains. when paa is adsorbed on alumina, the polymer chains cannot any more be treated as independent chains. one may rather assume formation of aggregates that form an organic layer at the mineral surface which can be viewed as a penetrable, gel-like structure.
a universal primer set for pcr amplification of nuclear histone h4 genes from all animal species. to control the quality of genomic dna of samples from a wide variety of animals, a heminested pcr assay specifically targeting a nuclear gene has been developed. the histone h4 gene family comprises a small number of genes considered among the most conserved genes in living organisms. tissue samples from necropsies and from cells belonging to 43 different species were studied, eight samples from invertebrates and 35 samples from vertebrates covering all classes. ancient dna samples from three siberian woolly mammoths (mammuthus primigenius) dating between 40,000 and 49,000 years before present were also tested for pcr amplification. performance of hist2h4 amplification were also compared with those of previously published universal pcrs (28s rrna, 18s rrna, and cytochrome b). overall, 95% of species studied yielded an amplification product, including some old samples from gorilla and chimpanzees. the data indicate that the hist2h4 amplimers are, thus, suitable for both dna quality testing as well as species identification in the animal kingdom.
contribution to the analysis and the structured control design of large-scale systems. nowadays, the control designer has to deal with more and more complex systems, with a high number of dynamics, but also of actuators and captors, or even spatial structural constraints on the controller. this comes from the increasing complexity of industrial processes, the use of more and more efficient communication systems, and increasing performances requirements (optimization as global as possible).&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;even if decentralized control theory has benefit from numerous studies since the 70's, many problems are still opened. at the same time, efficient tools for analysis and synthesis have been developed, especially in the h2 and the h¥ context. however, application of such tools in the case of large-scale systems (composed most of the time of interconnected subsystems) may be difficult, even more if structural constraints are applied to the controller.&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;methodology is essential when the control problem of complex system is considered. to this end, this document focuses on the analysis of the interconnections of subsystems in order to choose the most appropriated structure for the controller. the choice of the criterion, and the global optimization of a h2 controller in a sequential manner are also considered. these methodological considerations are applied on an experimental web transport system.
screening corrections in simulating heavy ion collisions. one year ago, we presented a new approach to treat hadronic interactions for the initial stage of nuclear collisions. it is an effective theory based on the gribov-regge formalism, where the internal structure of the pomerons at high energies is governed by perturbative parton evolution, therefore the name "parton-based gribov-regge theory". the main improvement compared to models used so-far is the appropriate treatment of the energy sharing between the different elementary interactions in case of multiple scattering. it is clear that the above formalism is not yet complete. at high energies (rhic, lhc), the multiple elementary interactions (pomerons) can not be purely parallel, they interact. so we introduce multiple pomeron vertices into the theory.
correctness of constraint retraction algorithms. in this paper, we present a general scheme for incremental constraint retraction algorithms that encompasses all existing algorithms. moreover, we introduce some necessary conditions to ensure the correctness of any incremental constraint retraction algorithms. this rather theoretical work is based on the notion of explanation for constraint programming and is exemplified within the palm system: a constraint solver allowing dynamic constraint retractions.
hard scattering cross sections at lhc in the glauber approach: from pp to pa and aa collisions. the scaling rules of the invariant yields and cross sections for hard scattering processes in proton-nucleus ($pa$) and nucleus-nucleus ($ab$) reactions at lhc energies relative to those of nucleon-nucleon $nn$ (isospin averaged $pp$) collisions are reviewed within the glauber geometrical formalism. the number of binary inelastic collisions for different centrality classes in p+pb and pb+pb collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 8.8 tev and 5.5 tev respectively, as obtained from a glauber monte carlo, are also given.
hard probes at heavy-ion collider energies: results from phenix. hard processes in nucleus-nucleus interactions at relativistic energies are reviewed with emphasis on recent phenix results from the first run of the relativistic heavy-ion collider at bnl. the observed suppression of moderately high $p_t$ hadrons ($p_t$ = 2 - 5 gev/c) in $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev $au+au$ central collisions with respect to the scaled $pp$ data, is discussed in terms of conventional nuclear and ``quark-gluon-plasma'' effects. the meson and baryon composition at high $p_t$, as well as the implications for open charm of the measured single electron spectrum are also presented.
tenacious domain walls in supersymmetric qcd. we study the structure of the tenacious (existing for all values of masses of the matter fields) bps domain walls interpolating between different chirally asymmetric vacua in supersymmetric qcd in the limit of large masses. we show that the wall consists in this case of three layers: two outer layers form a ``coat'' with the characteristic size determined by \lambda_{sym} and there is also the core with width of order of inverse mass. the core always carries a significant fraction of the total wall energy. this fraction depends on $n_f$ and on the ``windings'' of the matter fields.
star results on strangeness production at rhic energies. strangeness measurement at rhic energies constitutes one of the favorite theme of the star collaboration. besides the fact that strangeness enhancement has been proposed as a quark gluon plasma signature, its production provides various and relevant information about the collision evolution and especially on the hadronization process. the investigation of short-lived strange particles as well as their anti-particles and resonances allows an attempt of characterization of the matter created in rhic heavy ion collisions.
identification of particles and hard processes with the spectrometer phos of the alice experiment. heavy-ion collisions are a unique tool to study nuclear matter under extreme conditions of density and temperature like the ones present a few moments after the big bang, where nuclear matter may be composed of a plasma of almost free quarks and gluons. its production is the main interest of the alice experiment at the lhc collider, where pb-pb collisions at 5.5a tev will be made. photons are an interesting signature produced in these collisions as they can give unperturbed information on their creation conditions. the phos detector in the alice experiment is devoted to their measurement. for this thesis a phos performance study and the development of particle identification algorithms have been done. high-energy photons will be produced with a recoiling jet which can suffer modifications due to the nuclear medium produced, an identification method of such processes is described and its sensitivity to jet modifications induced by the nuclear medium is studied.
behaviour of spent htr fuel elements in aquatic phases of repository host rock formations. one back-end option for spent htr fuel elements proposed for future htr fuel cycles in the ec is an open fuel cycle with direct disposal of conditioned or non-conditioned fuel elements. this option has already been chosen in germany due to the political decision to terminate the use of htr technology. first integral leaching investigations at research centre juelich on the behaviour of spent htr fuel in salt brines, typical of accident scenarios in a repository in salt, proved that the main part of the radionuclide inventory cannot be mobilised as long as the coated particles do not fail. however, such experiments will not lead to a useful model for performance assessment calculations, because a failure of the coatings by corrosion will not occur during experimental times of a few years. in order to get a robust and realistic model for the long-term behaviour in aqueous phases of host rock systems, it is necessary to understand the barrier function of the different parts of an htr fuel element, i.e. the matrix graphite, the different coating materials, and the fuel kernel. therefore, our attention is focused on understanding and modelling the barrier performance of the different parts of an htr fuel element with respect to their barrier function, and on the development of an overall model for performance assessment. in order to understand this behaviour, it is necessary to start with investigations of unirradiated material, and to proceed with experiments with external gamma irradiation to determine the effects of oxidising radiolysis species. further experiments with irradiated material have to be performed to investigate the influence of the irradiation damage, and finally an investigation has to be made of the irradiated material plus additional gamma irradiation. experimental data are now available for the diffusive transport of radionuclides in the water-saturated graphite pore system, the corrosion rates of unirradiated graphite with and without external gamma irradiation and unirradiated and irradiated silicon carbide, and for the dissolution rates of uo2 and (th,u)o2 fuel kernels with and without external gamma irradiation. all investigations were performed in aquatic phases from salt, granite, and clay host rock.
local energy efficiency and demand-side managment activities in france. null
chemical thermodynamics of zirconium. null
detection and resolution of aspect interactions. aspect-oriented programming (aop) promises separation of concerns at the implementation level. however, aspects are not always orthogonal and aspect interaction is an important problem. currently there is almost no support for the detection and resolution of such interactions. the programmer is responsible for identifying interactions between conflicting aspects and implementing conflict resolution code. in this paper, we propose a solution to this problem based on a generic framework for aop. the contributions are threefold: we present a formal and expressive crosscut language, two static conflict analyses and some linguistic support for conflict resolution.
leaching behaviour of unirradiated high temperature reactor (htr) uo$_2$-tho$_2$ mixed oxide fuel particles. null
effect of alpha radiolysis on doped uo$_2$ dissolution under reducing conditions. the aim of the present work is to quantify the influence of alpha radioactivity of 225ac doped uo2 on the dissolution rate under reducing conditions at ph 6. the doped or undoped material was prepared by precipitation and the size of particles was about 3 nm. the total alpha activity of the doped material was about 2000 mbq g-1 uo2, about 4 times higher than that of 15 years old spent fuel. the solution was kept under reducing conditions during the experiment by permanent electrochemical reduction under inert atmosphere. the results showed that the dissolution rate of doped material was a function of alpha activity and thus a function of the dose.
speciation of tc(iv) in chloride solutions by capillary electrophoresis. browse search my profile activate help home &gt; list of issues &gt; table of contents &gt; abstract speciation of tc(iv) in chloride solutions by capillary electrophoresis author(s): xiaolan liu | frédéric poineau | massoud fattahi | bernd grambow | l. vichot doi: 10.1524/ract.93.5.305.64276 view pdf article (245 k) view table of contents email this link add to my alerts what is rss? trouble viewing articles as pdf? radiochimica acta print issn: 0033-8230 volume: 93 | issue: 5/2005 cover date: 20050501 page(s): 305-309 abstract text a method for speciation of tc(iv) species (tccl62− and tccl5(h2o)−) in chloride solutions, using capillary electrophoresis (ce) technique was developed. the proposed method has overcome the difficulties of unstable oxidation states analysis by shortening their travel time in the capillary. tccl62− and tccl5(h2o)− were thus separated without being hydrolyzed and polymerized, and their uv/vis spectra were recorded. with a 1 m hcl/nacl buffer solution (ph=1), the electrophoretic mobilities were determined as 5.47×10−4 cm2/vs for tccl62− and 2.13×10−4 cm2/vs for tccl5(h2o)− at 25 °c. the total analysis time for one run is 12 minutes.
microbial reduction of $^{99}$tc in organic matter-rich soils. for safety assessment purposes, it is necessary to study the mobility of long-lived radionuclides in the geosphere and the biosphere. within this framework, we studied the behaviour of 99tc in biologically active organic matter-rich soils. to simulate the redox conditions in soils, we stimulated the growth of aerobic and facultative denitrifying and anaerobic sulphate-reducing bacteria (srb). in the presence of either a pure culture of denitrifiers (pseudomonas aeruginosa) or a consortium of soil denitrifiers, the solubility of tco4− was not affected. the nonsorption of tco4− onto bacteria was confirmed in biosorption experiments with washed cells of p. aeruginosa regardless of the ph. at the end of denitrification with indigenous denitrifiers in soil/water batch experiments, the redox potential (eh) dropped and this was accompanied by an increase of fe concentration in solution as a result of reduction of less soluble fe(iii) to fe(ii) from the soil particles. it is suggested that this is due to the growth of a consortium of anaerobic bacteria (e.g., fe-reducing bacteria). the drop in eh was accompanied by a strong decrease in tc concentration as a result of tc(vii) reduction to tc(iv). thermodynamic calculations suggested the precipitation of tco2. the stimulation of the growth of indigenous sulphate-reducing bacteria in soil/water systems led to even lower eh with final tc concentration of 10-8 m. experiments with glass columns filled with soil reproduced the results obtained with batch cultures. sequential chemical extraction of precipitated tc in soils showed that this radionuclide is strongly immobilised within soil particles under anaerobic conditions. more than 90% of tc is released together with organic matter (60–66%) and fe-oxyhydroxides (23–31%). the present work shows that ubiquitous indigenous anaerobic bacteria in soils play a major role in tc immobilisation. in addition, organic matter plays a key role in the stability of the reduced tc.
spent fuel evolution under disposal conditions. synthesis of the results from the eu spent fuel stability (sfs) project. null
the effect of dissolved hydrogen on the dissolution of 233u doped uo2(s), high burn-up spent fuel and mox fuel. null
effect of alpha irradiation field on long-term corrosion rates of spent fuel. null
spent fuel performance under repository conditions: a model for use in sr-can. null
the role of water diffusion in the corrosion of the french nuclear waste glass son 68 under solution saturation conditions. null
effect of gamma and alpha irradiation on the corrosion of the french borosilicate glass son 68. null
effect of alpha radiolysis on uo2 dissolution under reducing conditions. null
a proposal for a high performance $\gamma$-camera based on liquid xenon converter and gaseous photomultiplier for pet. null
complexation studies of eu(iii) with alumina-bound polymaleic acid: effect of organic polymer loading and metal ion concentration. to contribute to the comprehension of the metal ion sorption properties in mixed mineral-organic matter systems, interaction studies between eu(iii) and polymaleic acid (pma)-coated alumina colloids were carried out at ph 5 in 0.1 m naclo4. the studied parameters were the metal ion concentration (1 × 10-10 to 1 × 10-4 m) and pma loading on alumina ( = 10-70 mg/g). the data were described by a surface complexation model. the constant capacitance model was used to account for electrostatic interactions. the results showed that two sites were necessary to explain the sorption data. at high eu loading, eu is surrounded by one carboxylate group and one aluminol group. the existence of this ternary surface site was in agreement with time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy measurements. at low metal ion concentra tions, a surface site corresponding to a 1:1 eu/coo- stoichiometry was deduced from modeling. spectroscopic data did not corroborate the existence of this latter site. this discrepancy was explained by postadsorption kinetic phenomenon: a migration of the metal ion within the adsorbed organic layer.
xas study of technetium(iv) polymer formation in mixed sulphate/chloride media. x-ray absorption spectroscopy has been used to establish polymer formation of tc(iv) in aqueous solutions of na+so42- and na+cl-/so42-. as the molybdenum chemistry show similarities to that of technetium, we used moo2 as a reference to model our technetium species. fitting of tco2·xh2o with this model led to a good correlation with the literature data: (tc-tc=2.53 å, tc-o=1.87-1.98 å). in aqueous solution, some polymers are formed regardless to the nature of the media composition: tc-tc=2.50±0.02 å. the general structure is in agreement with a first coordination shell containing 6 o. the modelling shows that, in the first coordination shell, there is no chloride ligand. the observed geometries are close to those found for tco2·xh2o, hence the unknown aqueous species must be considered as a precursor of the solid technetium dioxide. combination of these results with xanes led to attribute tcnivop(4n-2p)+(h2o)q with n&gt;2 to the species.
supersymmetric beta function with ultraviolet chop-off. null
born--oppenheimer corrections to the effective zero-mode hamiltonian in sym theory. we calculate the subleading terms in the born--oppenheimer expansion for the effective zero-mode hamiltonian of n = 1, d=4 supersymmetric yang--mills theory with any gauge group. the hamiltonian depends on 3r abelian gauge potentials a_i, lying in the cartan subalgebra, and their superpartners (r being the rank of the group). the hamiltonian belongs to the class of n = 2 supersymmetric qm hamiltonia constructed earlier by ivanov and i. its bosonic part describes the motion over the 3r--dimensional manifold with a special metric. the corrections explode when the root forms \alpha_j(a_i) vanish and the born--oppenheimer approximation breaks down.
quasiclassical expansion for $tr{(-1)^f ^{-\beta h}}$. we start with some methodic remarks referring to purely bosonic quantum systems and then explain how corrections to the leading--order quasiclassical result for the fermion--graded partition function tr{(-1)^f exp(-\beta h)} can be calculated at small \beta. we perform such calculation for certain supersymmetric quantum mechanical systems where such corrections are expected to appear. we consider in particular supersymmetric yang-mills theory reduced to (0+1) dimensions and were surprised to find that the correction of order \beta^2 vanishes in this case. we discuss also a nonstandard n =2 supersymmetric sigma model defined on s^3 and other 3--dimensional conformally flat manifolds and show that the quasiclassical expansion breaks down for this system.
complexation studies of eu(iii) with polyacrylic acid either free in solution or adsorbed onto alumina. the complexation of eu(iii) with polyacrylic acid (paa) and alumina-bound polyacrylic acid (paa-al2o3) was studied at ph 5 in 0.1 m naclo4. the experiments were carried out for two polyelectrolytes at 5000 da and 50000 da. the quantitative description of the interaction of eu and paa showed the formation of a 1:1 eu:paa complex and the existence of similar binding modes ("sites") of eu with both polymers. interaction studies of eu(iii) with alumina-bound paa particles were carried out in conditions where their overall surface charge were equal to 0. the description of the data indicated the existence of a similar site in binary and ternary systems for high eu loading. for low eu loading, the existence of a new site on paa-al2o3 particles resulting from the paa-al2o3 interaction was suggested.
scandal - a facility for elastic neutron scattering studies in the 50-130 mev range. null
measurement of the $\lambda$ and $\bar\lambda$ particles in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$=130 gev. we present results on the measurement of lambda and lambda^bar production in au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn)=130 gev with the phenix detector at rhic. the transverse momentum spectra were measured for minimum bias and for the 5% most central events. the lambda^bar/lambda ratios are constant as a function of p_t and the number of participants. the measured net lambda density is significantly larger than predicted by models based on hadronic strings (e.g. hijing) but in approximate agreement with models which include the gluon junction mechanism.
flow measurements via two-particle azimuthal correlations in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. two particle azimuthal correlation functions are presented for charged hadrons produced in au + au collisions at rhic sqrt(s_nn) = 130 gev. the measurements permit determination of elliptic flow without event-by-event estimation of the reaction plane. the extracted elliptic flow values v_2 show significant sensitivity to both the collision centrality and the transverse momenta of emitted hadrons, suggesting rapid thermalization and relatively strong velocity fields. when scaled by the eccentricity of the collision zone, epsilon, the scaled elliptic flow shows little or no dependence on centrality for charged hadrons with relatively low p_t. a breakdown of this epsilon scaling is observed for charged hadrons with p_t &gt; 1.0 gev/c for the most central collisions.
an insulating grid spacer for large-area micromegas chambers. we present an original design for large area gaseous detectors based on the micromegas technology. this technology incorporates an insulating grid, sandwiched between the micro-mesh and the anode-pad plane, which provides an uniform 200 $\mu$m amplification gap. the uniformity of the amplification gap thickness has been verified under several experimental conditions. the gain performances of the detector are presented and compared to the values obtained with detectors using cylindrical micro spacers. the new design presents several technical and financial advantages.
one-, two- and three-particle distributions from 158 a gev/c central pb+pb collisions. several hadronic observables have been studied in central 158 a gev pb+pb collisions using data measured by the wa98 experiment at cern: single negative pion and kaon production, as well as two- and three-pion interferometry. the wiedemann-heinz hydrodynamical model has been fitted to the pion spectrum, giving an estimate of the temperature and transverse flow velocity. bose-einstein correlations between two identified negative pions have been analysed as a function of kt, using two different parameterizations. the results indicate that the source does not have a strictly boost invariant expansion or spend time in a long-lived intermediate phase. a comparison between data and a hydrodynamical based simulation shows very good agreement for the radii parameters as a function of kt. the pion phase-space density at freeze-out has been measured and agrees well with the tomasik-heinz model. a large pion chemical potential close to the condensation limit of the pion mass seems to be excluded. the three-pion bose-einstein interferometry shows a substantial contribution of the genuine three-pion correlation, but not quite as large as expected for a fully chaotic and symmetric source.
effective lagrangian for 3d n=4 sym theories for any gauge group and monopole moduli spaces. we construct low energy effective lagrangians for 3d n=4 supersymmetric yang-mills theory with any gauge group. they represent supersymmetric sigma models at hyper-kahlerian manifolds of dimension 4r (r is the rang of the group). in the asymptotic region, perturbatively exact explicit expression for the metric are written. we establish the relationship of this metric with the taub-nut metric describing the perturbatively exact effective lagrangians for unitary groups and monopole moduli spaces: the former is obtained out of the latter by a proper hyper-kahlerian reduction. we describe in details the reduction procedure for so/sp/g_2 gauge groups, where it can also be given a natural interpretation in d-brane language. we conjecture that the exact nonperturbative metrics can be obtained by a similar hyper-kahlerian reduction from the corresponding multidimensional atiyah-hitchin metrics.
quantum gravity as escher's dragon. the main obstacle in attempts to construct a consistent quantum gravity is the absence of independent flat time. this can in principle be cured by going out to higher dimensions. the modern paradigm assumes that the fundamental theory of everything is some form of string theory living in space of more than four dimensions. we advocate another possibility that the fundamental theory is a form of d=4 higher-derivative gravity. this class of theories has a nice feature of renormalizability so that perturbative calculations are feasible. there are also finite n=4 supersymmetric conformal supergravity theories. this possibility is particularly attractive. einstein's gravity is obtained in a natural way as an effective low-energy theory. the n=1 supersymmetric version of the theory has a natural higher-dimensional interpretation due to ogievetsky and sokatchev, which involves embedding of our curved minkowsky space-time manifold into flat 8-dimensional space. assuming that a variant of the finite n=4 theory also admit a similar interpretation, this may eventually allow one to construct consistent quantum theory of gravity. we argue, however, that even though future gravity theory will probably use higher dimensions as construction scaffolds, its physical content and meaning should refer to 4 dimensions where observer lives.
effective lagrangians for (0+1) and (1+1) dimensionally reduced versions of d=4 n=2 sym theory. we consider dimensionally reduced versions of n=2 four- dimensional supersymmetric yang-mills theory and determine the one-loop effective lagrangians associated with the motion over the corresponding moduli spaces. in the (0+1) case, the effective lagrangian describes an n=4 supersymmetric quantum mechanics of the diaconescu--entin type. in (1+1) dimensions, the effective lagrangian represents a twisted n=4 supesymmetric sigma model due to gates, hull, and rocek. we discuss the genetic relationship between these two models and present the explicit results for all gauge groups.
abelian matrix models in two loops. we perform a two-loop calculation of the effective lagrangian for the low--energy modes of the quantum mechanical system obtained by dimensional reduction from 4d, n = 1 supersymmetric qed. the bosonic part of the lagrangian describes the motion over moduli space of vector potentials a_i endowed with a nontrivial conformally flat metric. we determined the coefficient of the two-loop correction to the metric, which is proportional to 1/a^6. for the matrix model obtained from abelian 4d, n = 2 theory, this correction vanishes, as it should.
a new experimental design to investigate the concentration dependent diffusion of eu(iii) in compacted bentonite. the 'lsquoin-diffusionrsquo method was used to study the diffusion behavior of eu(iii) in compacted bentonite. the results (k d, apparent and effective diffusion coefficients) derived from the capillary method are in good agreement with the literature data for similar bentonite dry densities and similar radionuclide concentrations, and fits the fick's second law very well. the method was used to study the effect of solution concentration (10-7-10-3 mol/l) on the diffusion and sorption behavior in compacted bentonite. the experiments were carried out in synthetic groundwater, at room temperature. the results suggested that the diffusion of eu(iii) in the bentonite was independent on the density of bentonite, but dependent on the solution concentration. in agreement to the literature, the k d values from the capillary experiments are in most cases lower than those from batch experiments, they are about one-half to one-third the value to those from batch experiments. the difference between the k dvalues from capillary and batch experiments are a strong function of the bulk density of the bentonite. the results suggest that the content of interlaminary space plays a very important role to the transport of eu(iii) in compacted bentonite.
study of the reversibility of the interaction between eu(iii) and polyacrylic acids. humic substances are known to be a potential vector for the transport of trivalent metal ions in the environment due to non-reversible interactions. the goal of the present paper is to understand the origin of this non-reversibility using polyacrylic acid, paa, as model substance and eu(iii). the reversibilty of the interaction between eu(iii) and two polyacrylic acids (5000 and 50000 da) is investigated by comparing the interaction constants deduced from complexation and dissociation experiments in the presence of the chelex resin. the work is done at ph=5 in 0.1 mol l–1 naclo4. fluorescence spectroscopy is used as a speciation method to characterize the mode of interaction between eu(iii) and paa functional groups. the results show that eu(iii), in a first step, interacts rapidly with polyacrylic acid functional groups, probably by electrostatic forces. this process is followed by a rearrangement of the polymer chain to form an inner sphere site where eu(iii) is probably coordinated with three carboxylate groups. the interaction between eu(iii) and polyacrylic acid is shown to be reversible: the parameters deduced from complexation and dissociation experiments are identical. this result differs from that previously reported for the model system composed of synthetic polycarboxylic acids and th(iv). this discrepancy is explained by the difference in the nature of the metal ion studied and/or by the difference in the range of ligand-to-metal ratios investigated. the difference in complexation behavior of eu(iii) with natural and synthetic polyelectrolytes is ascribed to their different structures.
study of the interaction between europium (iii) and bacillus subtilis: fixation sites, biosorption modeling and reversibility. in order to elucidate the underlying mechanisms involved in the biosorption of metal ions, potentiometric titrations, complexation studies, and time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy (trlfs) measurements were used to characterize the interaction between eu(iii) and bacillus subtilis. the reversibility of the interaction between eu(iii) and bacillus subtilis was studied by a cation-exchange technique using the chelex resin. for complexation studies in the presence of 0.15 mol/l of nacl, the metal ion, the biomass, concentrations and the ph were varied. the adsorption data were quantified by a surface complexation model without electrostatic term. the data on the eu(iii)/b.subtilis system at ph 5 were satisfactorily described by one site at which eu(iii) was bound through one carboxylic function of the bacteria. with increasing ph, another site should be considered, involving a phosphate-bound environment. this was partially confirmed by time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy. in addition to this, it was evidenced that the site availability was dependent on the nature of the cation, i.e., a proton or eu(iii). finally, it was shown that, at ph 5, the eu(iii)/bacillus subtilis equilibrium was reversible.
alien—alice environment on the grid. alien (http://alien.cern.ch) (alice environment) is a grid framework built on top of the latest internet standards for information exchange and authentication (soap, pki) and common open source components. alien provides a virtual file catalogue that allows transparent access to distributed datasets and a number of collaborating web services which implement the authentication, job execution, file transport, performance monitor and event logging. in the paper we will present the architecture and components of the system.
background field calculations and nonrenormalization theorems in 4d supersymmetric gauge theories and their low-dimensional descendants. we analyze the structure of multiloop supergraphs contributing to the effective lagrangians in 4d supersymmetric gauge theories and in the models obtained from them by dimensional reduction. when d=4, this gives the renormalization of the effective charge. for d &lt; 4, the low-energy effective lagrangian describes the metric on the moduli space of classical vacua. these two problems turn out to be closely related. in particular, we establish the relationship between the 4d nonrenormalization theorems (in minimal and extended supersymmetric theories) and their low--dimensional counterparts.
low-dimensional sisters of seiberg-witten effective theory. we consider the theories obtained by dimensional reduction to d=1,2,3 of 4d supersymmetric yang--mills theories and calculate there the effective low-energy lagrangia describing moduli space dynamics -- the low-dimensional analogs of the seiberg--witten effective lagrangian. the effective theories thus obtained are rather beautiful and interesting from mathematical viewpoint. in addition, their study allows one to understand better some essential features of 4d supersymmetric theories, in particular -- the nonrenormalisation theorems.
symplectic sigma models in superspace. we discuss a special "symplectic'' class of n = 4 supersymmetric sigma models in (0+1) dimension with 5r bosonic and 4r complex fermionic degrees of freedom. these models can be described off shell by n = 2 superfields (so that only half of supersymmetries are manifest) and also by n = 4 superfields in the framework of the harmonic superspace approach. using the latter, we derive the general form of the relevant bosonic target metric.
real-time tracking of time-varying velocity using a self-mixing laser diode. a new method is proposed for estimating the time-varying velocity of a moving target with a low-cost laser sensor using optical feedback interferometry. a new algorithm is proposed to track velocity variations from real-time analysis of the output signal of a self-mixing laser diode. this signal is strongly corrupted by a multiplicative noise caused by the speckle effect, which occurs very often with noncooperative targets used in many industrial applications. the proposed signal processing method is based on a second order adaptive linear predictor filter, which enables us to track the digital instantaneous doppler frequency, which is proportional to the velocity. a model of the laser diode output signal is proposed, and it is shown that the sensor and its associated algorithm have a global first-order lowpass transfer function with a cutoff frequency expressed as a function of the speckle perturbations, the signal to noise ratio and the mean doppler frequency. numerical as well as experimental results illustrate the properties of this sensor.
a double-laser diode onboard sensor for velocity measurements. in this paper, we validate the feasibility of an onboard velocity sensor using the self-mixing effect. roughness of the target surface, wet target surface, noncontrolled changes of incident angle, and speed vector vertical components have been considered during this development. a first prototype has been designed with an automotive application so to illustrate this feasibility. this low-cost and low-clutter prototype presents an interesting basic performance (/spl sigma//spl ap/0.22%). in order to improve the accuracy as well as the robustness of the system, a double-laser diode sensor has then been tested successfully (/spl sigma//spl ap/0.038%) by removing the influence of the pitching and the pumping effects.
interaction of eu(iii)/cm(iii) with alumina-bound poly(acrylic acid): sorption, desorption, and spectroscopic studies. this paper contributes to the comprehension of kinetic and equilibrium phenomena governing trace metal ion sorption on organic matter coated mineral particles. sorption and desorption experiments were carried out with trivalent metal ions m(iii) (m = eu, cm) and poly(acrylic acid) (paa)-coated alumina colloids at ph 5 in 0.1 m naclo4. under these conditions, m(iii) interaction with the solid is governed by sorbed paa. the results were compared with spectroscopic data obtained by time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy (trlfs). within less than 30 s, a state of local equilibrium is reached between m(iii) and adsorbed poly(acrylic acid). m(iii) bound to the organic-mineral surface and to dissolved paa keeps five water molecules in its first hydration sphere. interaction of m(iii) with alumina-bound paa appears to be stronger than with dissolved paa. with increasing contact time, a change of the metal ion speciation occurs at the organic-mineral surface. this change is explained quantitatively by kinetically controlled reactions, which succeed a rapid local equilibrium. the experimental findings suggest, in agreement with model calculations, that a part of the initially sorbed m(iii) is slowly converted to a kinetically stabilized species, thereby losing water molecules from the first coordination sphere as indicated by trlfs. this species might be assigned as a ternary al2o3-m(iii)-paa complex. the second part of the initially bound m(iii) appears to experience as well kinetically controlled reactions, however, without showing changes in the first coordination sphere. we assume that the kinetic stabilization is the consequence of rearrangement processes of the paa at the alumina surface.
electrochemical aspects of radiolytically enhanced uo$_2$ dissolution. experiments were performed, irradiating uo2 colloids of 3 nm diameter by a 5 mev alpha beam of a cyclotron. both the dissolution rate of these colloids and the production rate of hydrogen peroxide have been measured. the experimentally measured corrosion rate of these colloids is very similar to the corrosion rates measured for bulk uo2 samples, indicating on the one hand that similar reaction mechanism prevail and on the other hand that the uo2 colloids are well representative for bulk uo2. the results were compared with two current models for radiolytical dissolution of spent fuel. additionally a new coupling between water radiolysis reactions and spent fuel dissolution has been established. the coupling is not anymore based on rate constants for direct reaction of oxidants with uo2, but on the electrochemical coupling of anodic dissolution reactions with cathodic reduction of molecular and radical radiolysis products. the model not only describes well the experimental data, it also allows to predict both the establishment of corrosion potentials and of fractional reaction orders with respect to oxidant concentrations. model results can also be compared with experimental data (corrosion potential ...) using uo2 as an electrode.
measurement of nonrandom event-by-event fluctuations of average transverse momentum in $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$=200 gev au+au and p+p collisions. event-by-event fluctuations of the average transverse momentum of produced particles near midrapidity have been measured by the phenix collaboration in sqrt(s[sub nn])=200 gev au+au, and p+p collisions at the relativistic heavy ion collider. the fluctuations are observed to be in excess of the expectation for statistically independent particle emission for all centralities. the excess fluctuations exhibit a dependence on both the centrality of the collision and on the pt range over which the average is calculated. both the centrality and pt dependence can be well reproduced by a simulation of random particle production with the addition of contributions from hard-scattering processes.
simulation of a high performance $\gamma$-camera concept for pet based on liquid xenon and gaseous photomultiplier. we present the results of geant3 simulations of a full pet system made of liquid xenon (lxe)-tpc /spl gamma/-camera modules. in such camera both ionization and scintillation signals will be detected to provide the three coordinates and the energy of the converted /spl gamma/-ray. for that purpose, we will develop advanced ionization detectors operating in liquid xenon as well as fast cryogenic gaseous photomultipliers (gpms) with csi photocathodes, dedicated to the detection of the lxe scintillation signal. the measurement of the conversion coordinates and the energy will allow to reconstruct the correct compton sequences and thus to identify the first interaction vertices of both correlated annihilation /spl gamma/-rays. moreover, measurement of the depth of interaction (doi) will lead to a parallax-free tomograph. the geant3 simulation code of the lxe-tpc pet provided very promising expected performances from a realistic detector: good sensitivity to 511 kev /spl gamma/-rays (-93% for a 9 cm depth lxe module) and good 3d spatial resolution (250 /spl mu/m fwhm for first interaction vertex localization); the latter is close to the intrinsic physical limitations of the method.
high performance $\gamma$-camera concept for pet based on liquid xenon and a gaseous photomultiplier. the lxe-pet project aims at initiating an international scientific cooperation to study a new generation of γ-cameras for positron emission tomography (pet). our approach consists of coupling a liquid xe converter with an advanced large-area, fast gas-avalanche imaging photomultiplier (gpm). the foreseen method is based on detecting both the ionization and xe scintillation signals, to provide the three coordinates and the energy of the converted γ. for that purpose, we will develop ionization detectors based on micromegas or pim (parallel ionization multiplier) operating in liquid xenon and cryogenic gpms with csi photocathodes for the detection of the scintillation signal; these will include: multi-gems (gas electron multipliers), thick gem-like multipliers (thgem), pim, glass capillary plates and wire-type. expected characteristics of such γ-camera will be presented.
simulation and evaluation of a new pet system based on liquid xenon as detection medium. due to its intrinsic physical properties, high density and atomic number, fast scintillation, high scintillation light yield and low ionization potential, liquid xenon is an excellent medium for the tracking and the accurate energy measurement of γ-rays in the mev energy domain. the use of liquid xenon associated to a micro gap structure device[1] to measure 511 kev γ-rays in pet system is under investigation at subatech. a geant3 simulation of a full pet design made of lxe-tpc modules has been developed and the first estimations of the performances from a realistic detector are very promising: good overall sensitivity to 511 kev γ's (~ 93% for a 9 cm lxe module), good three-dimensional spatial resolution (250 µm fwhm, for first interaction vertex localization). the measurement of the 3 coordinates of the interaction vertices and the energy loss associated allow to reconstruct the correct compton sequence of correlated annihilation γ-rays. hence the capability to identify the first interaction vertex leads to major progresses in pet imaging: a parallax free pet tomograph with high detection sensitivity and spatial resolution. moreover, such lxe-pet camera have an excellent rejection power on scattered events in 3d reconstruction mode.
polymer-supported organotin reagents for regioselective halogenation of aromatic amines. polymer-supported triorganotin halides were used in the halogenation reaction of aromatic amines. treatment of aromatic amines with n-butyllithium and polymer-supported organotin halides gave the corresponding polymer-bound n-triorganostannylamines, which by treatment with bromine or iodine monochloride gave the para-halogenated aromatic amines with high yields and high selectivities. the polymer-supported organotin halides reagents regenerated during the course of the halogenation reaction can be reused without loss of efficiency. the presence of tin residues in halogenated aromatic amines was also investigated and evaluated at under 20 ppm after three runs.
a central back-coupling hypothesis on the organization of motor synergies: a physical metaphor and a neural model. we offer a hypothesis on the organization of multi-effector motor synergies and illustrate it with the task of force production with a set of fingers. a physical metaphor, a leaking bucket, is analyzed to demonstrate that an inanimate structure can show apparent error compensation among its elements. a neural model is developed using tunable back-coupling loops as means of assuring error compensation in a task-specific way. the model demonstrates non-trivial features of multi-finger interaction such as delayed emergence of force stabilizing synergies and simultaneous stabilization of the total force and total moment produced by the fingers. the hypothesis suggests that neurophysiological structures involving short-latency feedback may play a central role in the formation of motor synergies.
a high resolution electromagnetic calorimeter based on lead-tungstate crystals. a large-scale prototype of the phos electromagnetic spectrometer, which is part of the alice detector, has been built and tested. this prototype has 256 detector channels and is operated at −25 °c. each detector channel is a lead-tungstate crystal coupled to an avalanche photo-diode with a low-noise preamplifier. the prototype includes a 16×16 crystal matrix, photo-detectors, analog and digital electronics, a thermo-stabilized cooling system, a light-emitting diode monitoring system, and a charged-particle detector acting as veto counter. results of measurements using electron and hadron beams of the cern ps and sps accelerators are discussed, and the performance of the prototype is evaluated.
proton - lambda correlations in au-au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}} = 200$ gev from the star experiment. the space-time evolution of the source of particles formed in the collision of nuclei can be studied through particle correlations. the star experiment is dedicated to study ultra-relativistic heavy ions collisions and allows to measure non-identical strange particle correlations. the source size can be extracted by studying p–λ, $\overline{\rm p}$–$\overline{\lambda}$, $\overline{\rm p}$–$\lambda$ and p–$\overline{\lambda}$ correlation functions. strong interaction potential has been studied for these systems using an analytical model. final state interaction (fsi) parameters have been determined and has shown a significant annihilation process present in $\overline{\rm p}$–$\lambda$ and p–$\overline{\lambda}$ systems not present in p–$\lambda$ and $\overline{\rm p}$–$\overline{\lambda}$.
conformal properties of hypermultiplet actions in six dimensions. we consider scale-invariant interactions of 6d n=1 hypermultiplets with the gauge multiplet. if the canonical dimension of the matter scalar field is assumed to be 1, scale-invariant lagrangians involve higher derivatives in the action. though scale-invariant, all such lagrangians are not invariant with respect to special conformal transformations and their superpartners. if the scalar canonical dimension is assumed to be 2, conformal invariance holds at the classical, but not at the quantum level.
description of quantum entanglement with nilpotent polynomials. we propose a general method for introducing extensive characteristics of quantum entanglement. the method relies on polynomials of nilpotent raising operators that create entangled states acting on a reference vacuum state. by introducing the notion of tanglemeter, the logarithm of the state vector represented in a special canonical form and expressed via polynomials of nilpotent variables, we show how this description provides a simple criterion for entanglement as well as a universal method for constructing the invariants characterizing entanglement. we compare the existing measures and classes of entanglement with those emerging from our approach. we derive the equation of motion for the tanglemeter and, in representative examples of up to four-qubit systems, show how the known classes appear in a natural way within our framework. we extend our approach to qutrits and higher-dimensional systems, and make contact with the recently introduced idea of generalized entanglement. possible future developments and applications of the method are discussed.
6d superconformal theory as the theory of everything. we argue that the fundamental theory of everything is a conventional field theory defined in the flat multidimensional bulk. our universe should be obtained as a 3-brane classical solution in this theory. the renormalizability of the fundamental theory implies that it involves higher derivatives (hd). it should be supersymmetric (otherwise one cannot get rid of the huge induced cosmological term) and probably conformal (otherwise one can hardly cope with the problem of ghosts) . we present arguments that in conformal hd theories the ghosts (which are inherent for hd theories) might be not so malignant. in particular, we present a nontrivial qm hd model where ghosts are absent and the spectrum has a well defined ground state. the requirement of superconformal invariance restricts the dimension of the bulk to be d &lt; 7. we suggest that the toe lives in six dimensions and enjoys the maximum n = (2,0) superconformal symmetry. unfortunately, no renormalizable field theory with this symmetry is presently known. we construct and discuss an n = (1,0) 6d supersymmetric gauge theory with four derivatives in the action. this theory involves a dimensionless coupling constant and is renormalizable. at the tree level, the theory enjoys conformal symmetry, but the latter is broken by quantum anomaly. the sign of the beta function corresponds to the landau zero situation.
benign vs malicious ghosts in higher-derivative theories. interacting theories with higher derivatives involve ghosts. they correspond to instabilities that display themselves at the classical level. we notice that comparatively "benign" mechanical higher-derivative systems exist where the classical vacuum is stable with respect to small perturbations and the problems appear only at the nonperturbative level. we argue that benign higher-derivative field theories exist which are stable with respect to small fluctuations with nonzero momenta. a particular example is the 6d n=2 higher-derivative sym theory, which is finite and unitary at the perturbative level. the inflation-like instability with respect to small fluctuations of static modes is always present, however.
pentaquarks: review of the experimental evidence. pentaquarks, namely baryons made by 4 quarks and one antiquark have been predicted and searched for since several decades without success. theoretical and experimental advances in the last 2 years led to the observation of a number of pentaquark candidates. we review the experimental evidence for pentaquarks as well as their non-observations by some experiments, and discuss to which extend these sometimes contradicting informations may lead to a consistent picture.
review of the experimental evidence on pentaquarks and critical discussion. we review and discuss the experimental evidence on predicted baryonic states made by 4 quarks and one antiquark, called pentaquarks. theoretical and experimental advances in the last few years led to the observation of pentaquark candidates by some experiments, however with relatively low individual significance. other experiments did not observed those candidates. furthermore, the masses of the $\theta^+$(1540) candidates exhibit a large variation in different measurements. we discuss to which extend these contradicting informations may lead to a consistent picture.
performance of the alice photon spectrometer phos. we present in this paper the measured characteristics of a 64 lead–tungstate crystal array designed to detect high-energy photons and neutral mesons with the alice photon spectrometer phos. the array has been tested with electron and charged pion secondary beams delivered by the cern ps and sps synchrotrons. photon energy and π0 invariant mass resolutions are presented. the phos particle identification performance for data simulated with the aliroot package is studied.
applications of optimisation with xpress-mp. null
origin of fragments in multifragmentation reactions. null
entrance and exit channels for the heaviest elements. null
on the double and triple-humped fission barriers and half-lives of actinide elements. the deformation barriers standing in the quasi-molecular shape path have been determined in the actinide region within a macroscopic-microscopic energy derived from a generalized liquid drop model, the algebraic droplet model shell corrections and analytic expressions for the pairing energies. double and triple-humped fission barriers appear. the second barrier corresponds to the transition from one-body shapes to two touching ellipsoids. the third minimum and third peak, when they exist, come from shell rearrangements in the deformed fragment. the shape of the other almost magic one is close to the sphere. the barrier heights agreewith the experimental results, the energy of the second minimum being a little too high. the predicted half-lives follow the experimental data trend.
potential barriers in the fusionlike deformation path. null
lisor, a liquid metal loop for material investigation under irradiation. lisor is a liquid metal loop that will use psi's 72 mev philips cyclotron to irradiate stressed steel specimens in contact with flowing lead-bismuth with 50µa proton beam. lisor is a joint effort of psi and subatech with the support from cnrs and the institute of physics from riga. it has been initiated to explore whether or not liquid metal corrosion and liquid metal embrittlement are enhanced under irradiation in the presence of stress. numerical simulations showed that the damage levels and gas production in thin specimens induced by 72 mev protons are, within reasonable limits, comparable to those on the inside of the beam window of a spallation target at 600 mev, while much less radioactivity is produced. the paper describes the basic features of the experiment, the technical concept of the liquid metal loop with a special emphasis on the test section exposed to the proton beam and some of the relevant safety aspects.
tensile tests on manet ii steel in circulating pb-bi eutectic. off-beam tensile test have been performed on manet ii steel in eutectic pb-55.5bi (lbe) and ar during commissioning of the lisor loop, an experimental liquid metal loop, which was developed to investigate the influence of pb-bi on possible structural materials under static load and irradiationn. test temperatures were 180 - 300 °c. manet ii (11% crmovnb steel) exhibits good swelling and creep resistance behaviour under irradiationn up to around 500 °c. good corrosion resistance of this material is expected due to the asence of the element ni in the steel matrix which has a high solubility in lbe. all specimens showed a ductile fracture in ar. in lbe a loss of ductility was observed at the test temperature of 250 and 300 °c in comparison to ar samples. sem analysis of the fracture surface of these specimens revealed a mixed mode, i.e. dimple and brittle fracture and penetration of pb-bi along the grain boundaries, which is a typical finding for liquid metal embrittlement.
medium effects on high $\p_{t}$ particle production measured with the phenix experiment. transverse momentum $\p_{t}$ spectra measured by the phenix experiment at rhic in au + au, d + au and pp collisions at $\sqrt {^s{nn}} = 200 gev$ and in au + au collisions at $\sqrt {^s{nn}} = 62.4 gev$ are presented. a suppression of the yield of high $\p_{t}$ hadrons in central au + au collisions by a factor 4-5 at $\p_{t}&gt;5$ is found relative to the pp reference scaled by the nuclear overlap function $(\t_{ab})$ . in contrast, direct photons are not suppressed in central au + au collisions and no suppression of high $\p_{t}$ particles can be seen in d + au collisions. this leads to the conclusion that the dense medium formed in central au + au collisions is responsible for the suppression.
low mass dilepton production at rhic energies. recent results on low mass dilepton measurements from the phenix experiment are reported. invariant mass spectra of $\phi-&gt; e+e-$ are measured for the first time in au-au collisions at $\sqrt{^{s}nn} = 200 gev$ in run2. in d-au collisions, the yields and mt slopes of both $\phi -&gt;e+e- $ and $\phi-&gt; k+k- $ are measured. both results are consistent with each other within errors. in the future, a hadron blind detector will be installed in phenix which will enhance our capabilities of rejecting external photon conversions and dalitz pairs, that will result in a significant reduction of the large combinatorial background.
can $\phi$ mesons give an answer to the baryon puzzle at rhic?. the phenix experiment at rhic has observed a large enhancement of baryon and anti-baryon production at ~ 2-5 gev/c, compared to expectations from jet fragmentation. while a number of theoretical interpretations of the data are available, there is not yet a definitive answer to the “baryon puzzle”. we investigate the centrality dependence of -meson production at mid-rapidity in au + au collisions with $sqrt {^{s}nn}=200 gev$. comparison with the proton and anti-proton spectra reveal similar shapes, as expected for soft production described by hydrodynamics. however, the absolute yields show a different centrality dependence. the nuclear modification factors for $\phi$ are similar to those of pions, rather than (anti)protons that have similar mass. at intermediate , baryon/meson effects seem to be more important than the mass effects, in support of recombination models.
hybrid materials applied to biotechnologies: coating of calcium phosphates for the design of implants active against bone resorption disorders. the reaction of a bisphosphonate bone resorption inhibitor (zoledronate) with calcium deficient hydroxyapatites (cdas) was studied as a potential route to local drug delivery systems active against bone resorption disorders. a simple mathematical model of the zoledronate–cda interaction was designed that correctly described the adsorption of zoledronate onto cdas. the resulting zoledronate-loaded materials were found to release the drug in different phosphate-containing media, with a satisfactory agreement between experimental data and the values predicted from the model.
dipole excitations of neutron-proton asymmetric nuclei. dipole excitations of unstable short-lived nuclei has been investigated experimentally by utilizing the electromagnetic-excitation process with high-energy secondary beams. from an exclusive measurement of the neutron-decay channels, differential cross sections with respect to excitation energy, which are directly related to the photo-absorption cross section and accordingly to the dipole-strength function, have been derived. light neutron-rich nuclei in the mass range froma = 11 toa = 23 with mass-over-charge ratios up toa/z≈ 2.8 have been investigated systematically. much in contrast to stable nuclei, low-lying dipole excitations well below the giant dipole resonance region have been observed as a general phenomenon for these neutron-proton asymmetric nuclei. for the neutron-rich oxygen isotopes, for instance, low-lyinge1 strength has been observed exhausting about 10% of the classical dipole sum rule below 15 mev excitation energy. a quantitative analysis of low-lying threshold strength for loosely bound nuclei indicates that the characteristics of the dipole strength is directly related to the ground-state single-particle structure of the valence nucleon in the projectile.
nucleon and light nucleus emission from excited nuclei. null
highly deformed rotating nuclei and superheavy elements in the fusionlike deformation valley. null
high-accuracy optical measurement of flatness for large objects. a high-accuracy non-contact optomechanical system has been designed for measuring the surface profile of relatively flat and large objects. the experimental set-up consists of a motorized gantry, a rangefinder, a ccd chip and a laser diode. this set-up permits discrete measurements to be performed on objects with a maximum plane surface area of 2.6 × 0.5 m2 along both the x and y axes. experiments were carried out on carbon sandwich panels. an uncertainty of ±8 µm has been obtained on flat and smooth surfaces; a ±30 µm uncertainty has been determined for a rough carbon sandwich panel.
a new algorithm for large surfaces profiling by fringe projection. a method for profiling surface objects based on the fringe projection method and a phase shifting algorithm is described. the application of this method to large surfaces is problematic since the calibration step requires the use of a reference plane as large as the object. a new algorithm based on least-squares method has also been developed to bypass this calibration step, and so the use of a reference plane. first experimental results on a carbon panel and on a parabolic aerial are presented to show the validity of the proposed algorithm. accuracy of 1mm has been obtained for an object of 1m and 20 cm long, while sensitivity has been proved to be of the order of 100 m.
radio detection of cosmic ray extensive air showers. at the radio observatory of nancay we study the possibility of detecting extremely high energy cosmic rays by radio detection of the electromagnetic pulse radiated during the development of extensive air showers in the atmosphere. details on the experimental setup and present results on the demonstrative experiment codalema are given.
cross-sections for pion and kaon production in proton nucleus collisions in the order of gev.&lt;br /&gt;measurement of double differential cross sections for light charged particles production in proton induced reaction at 62,9 mev on lead target. i - cross-sections for pion and kaon production in proton nucleus collisions in the order of gev.&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;the study of the hadrons properties in nuclear matter is a subject of interest at the present time. positively charged kaons, having a strange anti-quark that can not be reabsorbed, are a very interesting tool to investigate the nuclear medium.&lt;br /&gt; the first part of this thesis studies cross sections for pion and kaon production in proton nucleus collisions at incident energy in the order of gev.&lt;br /&gt; the quantum molecular dynamics model to simulate proton nucleus collisions is described. then, total cross sections of elementary processes implemented in the model are presented. next, effects of the nucleon spectral function on pion and kaon production observed in double differential cross sections are discussed. finally, consequences of the correlations observed among nucleons in nucleus are investigated.&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;ii - measurement of double differential cross sections for light charged particles production in proton induced reaction at 62,9 mev on lead target.&lt;br /&gt;&lt;br /&gt;in order to develop new options for nuclear waste management, studies are carrying out on the hybrid systems. the second part of this thesis takes place in the framework of the nuclear data linked to hybrid systems development. theoretical codes should have sufficient predictive power in the energy range from 20 to 150 mev. thus it is necessary to measure new cross sections to constrain these codes.&lt;br /&gt;the experiment aims to determine the double differential cross sections for light charged particles (p, d, t, 3he, a) production in proton induced reactions at 62,9 mev on lead target 208pb. the detection device consists of 7 triple telescopes, (si, si, csi(tl)).&lt;br /&gt;the general context of this work is presented in the first place. then, the experimental set up used for our measurements is described. the following chapters are dedicated to the data analysis.(particle discrimination, energy calibration) and double differential cross sections extraction. finally, a comparative study between our experimental results and some theoretical predictions is presented.
coulomb breakup of secondary beams of neutron-rich nuclei. secondary beams of unstable nuclei with kinetic energies of several hundred mev per nucleon are produced at, gsi in fragment~ationr eactions followed by in-flight, isot,ope separat'ion. results of studies of light) neutron-rich nuclei ranging from beryllium to oxygen including halo nuclei are presented. interaction of the projectiles with lead targets leads to coulomb breakup mediated t,hrough dipole excitabions into the continuum. non-resonant excitat,ions near the neutron separat,ion threshold deliver information on ground-stat,e properties such as spect,roscopic factors.
evidence for pygmy and giant dipole resonances in 130sn and 132sn. the dipole strength distribution above the one-neutron separation energy was measured in the unstable 130sn and the double-magic 132sn isotopes. the results were deduced from coulomb dissociation of secondary sn beams with energies around 500 mev/nucleon, produced by in-flight fission of a primary 238u beam. in addition to the giant dipole resonance, a resonancelike structure ("pygmy resonance") is observed at a lower excitation energy around 10 mev exhausting a few percent of the isovector e1 energy-weighted sum rule. the results are discussed in the context of a predicted new dipole mode of excess neutrons oscillating out of phase with the core nucleons.
proton induced reactions on $^{natural}$u at 62.9 mev. double differential cross sections (ddcs) for light charged particles (proton, deuteron, triton, 3he, alpha) and neutrons produced by a proton beam impinging on a 238u target at 62.9 mev were measured at the cyclone facility in louvain-la-neuve (belgium). these measurements have been performed using two independent experimental set-ups ensuring neutron (demon counters) and light charged particles (si-si-csi telescopes) detection. the charged particle data were measured at 11 different angular positions from 25 degrees to 140 degrees allowing the determination of angle differential, energy differential and total production cross sections.
the megapie-test project. the goals of the megapie initiative are to design, build and operate a 1mw heavy liquid metal target. the first step towards the realization of the megapie target was the feasibility studies, which outlined the entire project. contextually to the feasibility studies the conceptual design phase started with the establishment of r&amp;d working groups assisting the design and validation of both the target and its ancillary systems. in this framework the eu project megapie-test has been structured in three work packages with tasks concerning the finalization of the engineering design, the components and subsystem testing, the integral test and the first irradiation period. the megapie-test consortium is composed by the 14 partners: fzk, psi, cea, enea, sck-cen, cnrs /idfe, in2p3, lmpgm, emn, ismra, univ-nantes, u-psudxi, ustl. currently the engineering design of the target has been finalized, its manufacturing has been launched and the design activities on the ancillary systems were almost completed. r&amp;d activities in the fields of materials, thermal – hydraulics, structural mechanics, neutronic and nuclear assessment and liquid metal technologies were performed in order to assist specific design issues. some subsystem and component tests were also performed and the preparation of the integral test is an ongoing activity.
final summary report on target design. the present document is the d13 deliverable report of work package 1, target development, from the megapie test project of the 5th european framework program. deliverable d13 is the final summary report on the activities performed within wp 1. the manufacturer (atea) has indicated to deliver the target to psi in the middle of 2005. assuming that this date is realistic, it can be foreseen that the integral out-of beam test will be conducted during the end of the year 2005 and the beginning of the year 2006. it can be assumed that the irradiation of the megapie target will start during the second quarter of 2006. the content of the present work package 1 final summary report reflects the status of the megapie target and ancillary system development at the end of 2004.
a framework for the detection and resolution of aspect interactions. aspect-oriented programming (aop) promises separation of concerns at the implementation level. however, aspects are not always orthogonal and aspect interaction is an important problem. currently there is almost no support for the detection and resolution of such interactions. the programmer is responsible for identifying interactions between conflicting aspects and implementing conflict resolution code. in this paper, we propose a solution to this problem based on a generic framework for aop. the contributions are threefold: we present a formal and expressive crosscut language, two static conflict analyses and some linguistic support for conflict resolution.
trace-based aspects. this chapter presents trace-based aspects which take into account the history of program executions in deciding what aspect behavior to invoke. such aspects are defined in terms of execution traces and may express relations between different events. weaving is accomplished through an execution monitor which modifies the base program execution as defined by the aspects. we motivate trace-based aspects and explore the trade-off between expressiveness and property enforcement/analysis. more concretely, we first present an expressive model of trace-based aspects enabling proofs of aspect properties by equational reasoning. using a restriction of the aspect language to regular expressions, we show that it becomes possible to address the difficult problem of interactions between conflicting aspects. finally, by restricting the actions performed by aspects, we illustrate how to keep the semantic impact of aspects under control and to implement weaving statically.
composition, reuse and interaction analysis of stateful aspects. aspect-oriented programming promises separation of concerns at the implementation level. however, aspects are not always orrthogonal and aspect interaction is a fundamental problem. in this paper, we extend previous work on a generic framework for the formal definition and interaction analysis of stateful aspects. we propose three important extensions which enhance expressivity while preserving static analyzability of interactions. first, we provide support for variables in aspects in order to share information between different execution points. this allows the definition of more precise aspects and to avoid detection of spurious conflicts. second, we introduce generic composition operators for aspects. this enables us to provide expressive support for the resolution of conflicts among interacting aspects. finally, we offer a means to define applicability conditions for aspects. this makes interaction analysis more precise and paves the way for reuse of aspects by making explicit requirements on contexts in which aspects must be used.
centrality and transverse momentum dependence of collective flow in 158 a gev pb+pb collisions measured via inclusive photons. directed and elliptic flow of inclusive photons near mid-rapidity in $158 $a gev pb+pb collisions has been studied. the data have been obtained with the photon spectrometer leda of the wa98 experiment at the cern sps. the flow strength has been measured for various centralities as a function of $p_t$ and rapidity over $0.18 &lt; p_t &lt; 1.5 \mathrm{gev}/c$ and $2.3 &lt; y &lt; 2.9$. the angular anisotropy has been studied relative to an event plane obtained in the target fragmentation region that shows the elliptic flow to be in-plane. the elliptic flow has also been studied using two-particle correlations and shown to give similar results. a small directed flow component is observed. both the directed and elliptic flow strengths increase with $p_t$. the photon flow results are used to estimate the corresponding neutral pion flow.
chemical and dynamics properties of heavy ion collisions at rhic energies by the measurement of the production of the doubly strange baryons in the star experiment. lattice qcd calculations predict, at vanishing chemical potential mu_b, a crossover from ordinary hadronic matter to a quark gluon plasma. heavy ion collisions have been proposed to recreate it in the laboratory and to study its properties. the au+au, d+au collisions at sqrt(s_(nn)) = 200 gev and the au+au ones at 62.4 gev delivered at rhic have been probed by the measurement of the xi- and xi+ particles in the star experiment. their yield evolution with collision energy and system size gives rize to the chemical properties of the reaction in the framework of hadronic and statistical models. the nuclear modification factor, r_(cp), of xi shows: (1) a meson/baryon dependence for 2 &lt; p_t &lt; 5 gev/c well reproduced by quark coalescence and recombination models, (2) the formation of a dense matter signed by a r_(cp) suppression at p_t &gt; 3 gev/c, (3) strong interactions between constituants suggesting the existence of strong collectivity in the medium. the xi transverse flow and more generally the multistrange baryon flow seems to be interesting to probe the early stage the collision with presumably partonic degrees of freedom. it is studied and discussed in this thesis.
strange particle correlations measured by the star experiment in ultra-relativistic heavy ion collisions at rhic. non-identical correlation functions allow to study the space-time evolution of the source of particles formed in ultra-relativistic heavy ion collisions. the star experiment is dedicated to probe the formation of a new state of nuclear matter called quark gluon plasma. the proton - lambda correlation function is supposed to be more sensitive to bigger source sizes than the proton - proton because of the absence of the final state coulomb interaction. in this thesis, proton - lambda, anti-proton - anti-lambda, anti-proton - lambda and proton - anti-lambda correlation functions are studied in au+au collisions at = 200 gev using an analytical model. the proton - lambda and anti-proton - anti-lambda correlation functions exhibit the same behavior as in previous measurements. the anti-proton - lambda and proton - anti-lambda correlation functions, measured for the first time, show a very strong signal corresponding to the baryon–anti-baryon annihilation channel. parameterizing the correlation functions has allowed to characterize final state interactions.
incident energy dependence of $pt$ correlations at relativistic energies. we present results for two-particle transverse momentum correlations, $&lt;\deltapt,i\deltapt,j&gt;$, as a function of event centrality for au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_ {nn}}$=20, 62, 130, and 200 gev at the bnl relativistic heavy ion collider. we observe correlations decreasing with centrality that are similar at all four incident energies. the correlations multiplied by the multiplicity density increase with incident energy, and the centrality dependence may show evidence of processes such as thermalization, jet production, or the saturation of transverse flow. the square root of the correlations divided by the event-wise average transverse momentum per event shows little or no beam energy dependence and generally agrees with previous measurements made at the cern super proton synchrotron.
radio detection of cosmic ray air showers with codalema. studies of the radio detection of extensive air showers is the goal of the demonstrative experiment codalema. previous analysis have demonstrated that detection around $5.10^{16}$ ev was achieved with this set-up. new results allow for the first time to study the topology of the electric field associated to eas events on a event by event basis.
codalema: a cosmic ray air shower radio detection experiment. the codalema experimental device currently detects and characterizes the radio contribution of cosmic ray air showers : arrival directions and electric field topologies of radio transient signals associated to cosmic rays are extracted from the antenna signals. the measured rate, about 1 event per day, corresponds to an energy threshold around 5.10$^{16}$ev. these results allow to determine the perspectives offered by the present experimental design for radiodetection of ultra high energy cosmic rays at a larger scale.
features of radio detected extensive air showers with codalema. data acquisition and analysis for the codalema experiment, in operation for more than one year, has provided improved knowledge of the characteristics of this new device. at the same time, an important effort has been made to develop processing techniques for extracting transient signals from data containing interference.
radio detection of extensive air showers with codalema. the principle and performances of the codalema experimental device, set up to study the possibility of high energy cosmic rays radio detection, are presented. radio transient signals associated to cosmic rays have been identified, for which arrival directions and shower's electric field topologies have been extracted from the antenna signals. the measured rate, about 1 event per day, corresponds to an energy threshold around 5.10^16 ev. these results allow to determine the perspectives offered by the present experimental design for radiodetection of uhecr at a larger scale.
radio background measurements at the pierre auger observatory. null
radio-detection signature of high-energy cosmic rays by the codalema experiment. taking advantage of recent technical progress which has overcome some of the difficulties encountered in the 1960s in the radio detection of extensive air showers induced by ultra-high-energy cosmic rays (uhecr), a new experimental apparatus (codalema) has been built and operated. we will present the characteristics of this device and the analysis techniques that have been developed for observing electrical transients associated with cosmic rays. we find a collection of events for which both time and arrival direction coincidences between particle and radio signals are observed. the counting rate corresponds to shower energies $\geq 5 \times 10^{16}$ ev. the performance level which has been reached considerably enlarges the perspectives for studying uhecr events using radio detection.
evidence for radio detection of extensive air showers induced by ultra high energy cosmic rays. firm evidence for a radio emission counterpart of cosmic ray air showers is presented. by the use of an antenna array set up in coincidence with ground particle detectors, we find a collection of events for which both time and arrival direction coincidences between particle and radio signals are observed. the counting rate corresponds to shower energies $\gtrsim 5\times 10^{16}$ ev. these results open overwhelming perspectives to complete existing detection methods for the observation of ultra high-energy cosmic rays.
leaching behaviour of unirradiated high temperature reactor (htr) uo$_2$–tho$_2$ mixed oxides fuel particles. the dissolution of different mixed oxide (u, th)o$_2$ particles under reducing conditions has been studied using a continuous flow-through reactor. the u/th ratio seems to have no or little influence on the normalised leaching rate of thorium or uranium, the release rate of uranium from the outer surface of a th rich matrix seems to follow the behaviour of pure uo2 even though u is a minor component in these phases and the dissolution rate of th is much lower. after long time u concentrations will become depleted at the solids surface and it will be expected that u release rates will become controlled by the release rates of thorium (rates at neutral ph &lt; 10$^{−6}$ g m^{−2}$ d$^{−1}$). under reducing conditions, the matrix of htr fuel particles presents significant intrinsic radionuclide confinement properties.
mechanical behavior of a borosilicate glass under aqueous corrosion. in france, fission products are being vitrified for a possible final geological disposal. under disposal conditions, corrosion of the glass by groundwater as well as stress corrosion because of stresses occurring at surface flaws cannot be excluded. within this framework, the mechanical behavior of the french simulated nuclear waste glass son68 was studied by vickers indentation and fracture experiments in air and in a corrosive solution. the glass was corroded at 90°c in a solution enriched with si, b, and na. the results showed that the glass corrosion enhances the cracks propagation relative to experiments in air. the indentation fracture toughness ($k_{ic}$) obtained using a four-point bending test showed that the $k_{ic}$ of the glass decreased with increasing corrosion time.
differential probes of medium-induced energy loss. results from the phenix experiment of measurements of high- $p_{\rm t}$ particle production presented at the hard probes 2004 conference are summarized. this paper focuses on a sub-set of the measurements presented at the conference, namely the suppression of $\pi^0$ production at moderate to high $p_{\rm t}$ as a function of angle with respect to the collision reaction plane, $\delta\phi$ , for different collision centralities. the data are presented in the form of nuclear modification factor as a function of angle with respect to the reaction plane, $r_{aa} (\delta \phi)$ . the data are analyzed using empirical estimates of the medium-induced energy loss obtained from the $r_{aa} (\delta \phi)$ values. a geometric analysis is performed with the goal of understanding the simultaneous dependence of raa on $\delta\phi$ and centrality. we find that the centrality and $\delta\phi$ dependence of the $\pi^0$ suppression can be made approximately consistent using an admittedly over-simplistic description of the geometry of the jet propagation in the medium but only if the energy loss is effectively reduced for short parton path lengths in the medium. we find that with a more "canonical" treatment of the quenching geometry, the $\pi^0$ suppression varies more rapidly with $\delta\phi$ than would be expected from the centrality dependence of the suppression.
renormalizable supersymmetric gauge theory in six dimensions. we construct and discuss a 6d supersymmetric gauge theory involving four derivatives in the action. the theory involves a dimensionless coupling constant and is renormalizable. at the tree level, it enjoys n = (1,0) superconformal symmetry, but the latter is broken by quantum anomaly. our study should be considered as preparatory for seeking an extended version of this theory which would hopefully preserve conformal symmetry at the full quantum level and be ultraviolet-finite.
particle production in proton-proton and deuteron-gold collisions at rhic. we try to understand recent data on proton-proton and deuteron-gold collisions at rhic, employing a parton model approach called epos.
a new string model: nexus 3. after discussing conceptual problems with the conventional string model, we present a new approach, based on a theoretically consistent multiple scattering formalism. first results for proton-proton scattering at 158 gev are discussed.
the nexus model. the interpretation of experimental results at rhic and in the future also at lhc requires very reliable and realistic models. considerable effort has been devoted to the development of such models during the past decade, many of them being heavily used in order to analyze data. there are, however, serious inconsistencies in the above-mentioned approaches. in this paper, we will introduce a fully self-consistent formulation of the multiple-scattering scheme in the framework of a gribov-regge type effective theory.
inconsistencies in models for rhic and lhc. the interpretation of experimental results at rhic and in the future also at lhc requires very reliable and realistic models. considerable effort has been devoted to the development of such models during the past decade, many of them being heavily used in order to analyze data. it is the purpose of this paper to point out serious inconsistencies in the above-mentioned approaches. we will demonstrate that requiring theoretical self-consistency reduces the freedom in modeling high energy nuclear scattering enormously. we will introduce a fully self-consistent formulation of the multiple-scattering scheme in the framework of a gribov-regge type effective theory. in addition, we develop new computational techniques which allow for the first time a satisfactory solution of the problem in the sense that calculations of observable quantities can be done strictly within a self-consistent formalism.
models for rhic and lhc: new developments. we outline inconsistencies in presently used models for high energy nuclear scattering, which make their application quite unreliable. many \"successes\" are essentially based on an artificial freedom of parameters, which does not exist when the models are constructed properly. the problem is the fact that any multiple scattering theory requires an appropriate treatment of the energy sharing between the individual interactions, which is technically very difficult to implement. lacking a satisfying solution to this problem, it has been simply ignored. we introduce a fully self-consistent formulation of the multiple-scattering scheme. inclusion of soft and hard components - very crucial at high energies - appears in a \"natural way\", providing a smooth transition from soft to hard physics. we can show that the effect of appropriately considering energy conservation has a big influence on the results, and must therefore be included in any serious calculation.
early-reaction-phase energy transformation in heavy-ion reactions below 100 mev/u. an extensive study of maximal values that the main forms of energy take during the compact dynamical phase of heavy-ion reactions has been carried out within the framework of a semiclassical transport approach. several systems having different total mass and asymmetry have been studied over a full range of impact parameter and a wide range of incident energies below 100 mev/u. it has been found that maxima of compression and thermal energy as a function of impact parameter closely follow the reaction geometry in the spirit of the participant–spectator picture and in head-on collisions are proportional to the available center-of-mass energy. indication of a smooth transition between the low-energy reaction mechanism (deep inelastic model) and the higher-energy reaction mechanism (participant–spectator-like geometrical picture) is identified around the fermi energy.
inclusive $\pi^0$ spectra at high transverse momentum in d-au collisions at rhic. preliminary results on inclusive neutral pion production in d-au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ in the pseudo-rapidity range $0&lt;\eta&lt;1$ are presented. the measurement is performed using the star barrel electromagnetic calorimeter (bemc). in this paper, the analysis of the first bemc hadron measurement is described and the results are compared with earlier rhic findings. the $\pi^0$ invariant differential cross sections show good agreement with next-to-leading order (nlo) perturbative qcd calculations.
heavy-quarkonium hadron cross section in qcd at leading twist. we compute the total cross section of a heavy quarkonium on a hadron target in leading twist qcd, including target mass corrections. our method relies on the analytical continuation of the operator product expansion of the scattering amplitude, obtained long ago by bhanot and peskin. the cross section has a simple partonic form, which allows us to investigate the phenomenology of j/psi and upsilon dissociation by both pions and protons.
charmonium suppression in p-a collisions at rhic. we discuss charmonium production in proton-nucleus collisions at rhic energies under the assumption of xf and x2 scaling. we find that all the ambiguities due to energy loss are gone at this energy and therefore data will reveal the scaling law, if any. these p-a data will also be crucial to interpret nucleus-nucleus data with respect to a possible formation of a quark gluon plasma because the extrapolations for charmonium production from the present p-a data to rhic energies, based on the two scaling laws, differ by a factor of four.
quarkonium hadron interaction in qcd. the analytic continuation of the operator product expansion of the scattering amplitude allows to compute the heavy-quarkonium hadron total cross section. the energy dependence of the upsilon and upsilon' cross sections with a proton is discussed.
two large-area anode-pad micromegas chambers as the basic elements of a pre-shower detector. the design of a detector based on micromegas (micro mesh gaseous structure) technology is presented. our detector is characterized by a large active area of 398(\\times)281 mm(^{2}), a pad read-out with 20(\\times)22 mm(^{2}) segmentation, and an uniform amplification gap obtained by insulating spacers (100 (\\mu)m high and 200 (\\mu)m in diameter). the performances of several prototypes have been evaluated under irradiation with secondary beams of 2 gev/c momentum charged pions and electrons. we consider such a detector as the basic element for a pre-shower detector to equip the photon spectrometer (phos) of the alice experiment. its assets are modularity, small amount of material, robustness and low cost.
hard photon and neutral pion production in cold nuclear matter. the production of hard photons and neutral pions in 190 mev proton induced reactions on c, ca, ni, and w targets has been for the first time concurrently studied. angular distributions and energy spectra up to the kinematical limit are discussed and the production cross-sections are presented. from the target mass dependence of the cross-sections the propagation of pions through nuclear matter is analyzed and the production mechanisms of hard photons and primordial pions are derived. it is found that the production of subthreshold particles proceeds mainly through first chance nucleon-nucleon collisions. for the most energetic particles the mass scaling evidences the effect of multiple collisions.
on the relation between effective supersymmetric actions in different dimensions. we make two remarks: (i) renormalization of the effective charge in a 4--dimensional (supersymmetric) gauge theory is determined by the same graphs and is rigidly connected to the renormalization of the metric on the moduli space of the classical vacua of the corresponding reduced quantum mechanical system. supersymmetry provides constraints for possible modifications of the metric, and this gives us a simple proof of nonrenormalization theorems for the original 4-dimensional theory. (ii) we establish a nontrivial relationship between the effective (0+1)-dimensional and (1+1)-dimensional lagrangia (the latter represent conventional kahlerian sigma models).
effect of aqueous acetic, oxalic and carbonic acids on the adsorption of americium onto $\alpha$-alumina. the prediction of the migration for radionuclides in geologic media requires a quantitative knowledge of retardation phenomena. for this purpose, the sorption of am(iii) onto a model mineral — $\alpha$-alumina — is studied here, including the effects of groundwater chemistry: ph and concentrations of small organic ligands (acetate, oxalate and carbonate anions). this work presents some experimental evidences for the synergic sorption mechanism of americium–ligand cationic complexes onto the alumina. as its anionic complexes were not sorbed, am(iii) cations were desorbed as a result of the formation of anionic complexes in the aqueous phase. by using the ion-exchange theory, and a corresponding restricted set of parameters — exchange capacities and thermodynamic equilibrium constants — the whole set of sorption experiments of am(iii) cationic species onto the $\alpha$-alumina was modelled in various chemical conditions.
non-universality of transverse coulomb exchange at small x. within an explicit scalar qed model we compare, at fixed x &lt;&lt; 1, the leading-twist k_t-dependent `quark' distribution f_q(x, k_t) probed in deep inelastic scattering and drell-yan production, and show that the model is consistent with the universality of f_q(x, k_t). the extension of the model from the aligned-jet to the 'symmetric' kinematical regime reveals interesting properties of the physics of coulomb rescatterings when comparing dis and dy processes. at small x the transverse momentum induced by multiple scattering on a single centre is process dependent, as well as the transverse momentum broadening occurring in collisions on a finite size nuclear target.
hanbury brown-ttiss correlation functions from event generators: a reliable approach to determine the size of the emitting source in ultrarelativistic heavy ion collisions?. employing nexus, one of the most recent simulation programs for heavy ions collisions, we investigate in detail the hanbury-twiss correlation function for charged pions for reactions 158 gev pb+pb. for this study we supplement the standard simulation program by electromagnetic interactions. we find that the string fragmentation introduces strong space-momentum correlations and the freeze out times of the correlated pairs have a wide distribution. both has a strong influence on the apparent source radius determined from the measured correlation correlation function.an equally strong influence is observed for the final state electromagnetic interaction.
multifragmentation - what the data tell us about the different models. we discuss what the presently collected data tell us about the mechanism of multifragmentation by comparing the results of two different models, which assume or show an opposite reaction scenario, with the recent high statistics $4\\pi$ experiments performed by the indra collaboration. we find that the statistical multifragmentation model and the dynamical quantum molecular dynamics approach produce almost the same results and agree both quite well with experiment. we discuss which observables may serve to overcome this deadlock on the quest for the reaction mechanism. finally we proof that even if the system is in equilibrium, the fluctuation of the temperature due to the smallness of the system renders the caloric curve useless for the proof of a first order phase transition.
kaon production at subthreshold and threshold energies. we summarize what we have learnt about the kaon production in nucleus-nucleus collisions in the last decade. we will address three questions: a) is the $k^+$ production sensitive to the nuclear equation of state? b) how can it happen that at the same excess energy the same number of $k^+$ and $k^-$ are produced in heavy ion collisions although the elementary cross section in pp collisions differs by orders of magnitudes? and c) why kaons don\'t flow?.
critical opacity: a possible explanation of the fast thermalisation times seen in bnl rhic experiments. the nambu jona-lasinio lagrangian offers an explication of the seemingly contradictory observations that a) the energy loss in the entrance channel of heavy ion reactions is not sufficient to thermalize the system and that b) the observed hadron cross sections are in almost perfect agreement with hydrodynamical calculations. according to this scenario, a critical opacity develops close to the chiral phase transition which equilibrates and hadronizes the expanding system very effectively. it creates as well radial flow and, if the system is not isotropic, finite $v_2$ values.
study of system- size effects in multi- fragmentation using quantum molecular dynamics model. we report, for the first time, the dependence of the multiplicity of different fragments on the system size employing a quantum molecular dynamics model. this dependence is extracted from the simulations of symmetric collisions of ca+ca, ni+ni, nb+nb, xe+xe, er+er, au+au and u+u at incident energies between 50 a mev and 1 a gev. we find that the multiplicity of different fragments scales with the size of the system which can be parameterized by a simple power law.
$\phi$ puzzle in heavy-ion collisions at 2 a gev: how many k$^-$ from $\phi$ decays?. the preliminary experimental data on $\\phi$ production in the reaction ni(1.93 agev) + ni point to a puzzling high $\\phi$ yield which can not be reproduced with present transport codes. we survey the experimental situation and present prospects for dedicated measurements of the $\\phi$ multiplicities with the $k^+ k^-$ and $e^+ e^-$ channels at hades and fopi.
strange baryons in a hot and dense medium within the nambu-jona-lasinio model. using an extended version of the nambu-jona-lasinio model we build a simple description of the baryons as diquark-quark bound states. first, a description of the diquarks in a dense and hot medium is presented. then, we introduce the formalism for the baryons based on the faddeev equation associated with the so-called `` static approximation'' which finally gives a bethe-salpeter equation in the diquarks-quarks channel. by identifying the baryons with the bound states, we can obtain a description of their properties. in particular, we obtain the right mass spectrum for the proton, $\lambda$, $\xi$, and $\sigma$ at t=0 and $\mu=0$. we extend the formalism to finite temperature and density to obtain a description of the mass change of these baryons in the medium.
analysis of kaon spectra at sis energies - what remains from the kn potential. we study the reaction au+au at 1.48 agev and analyze the influence of the kn optical potential on cm spectra and azimuthal distributions at mid-rapidity. we find a significant change of the yields but only slight changes in the shapes of the distributions when turning off the optical potential. however, the spectra show contributions from different reaction times, where early kaons contribute stronger to higher momenta and late kaons to lower momenta. azimuthal distributions of the kaons at mid-rapidity show a strong centrality dependence. their shape is influenced by the kn optical potential as well as by re-scattering.
heavy flavor production in phenix. the phenix experiment at rhic measured single electron spectra in p + p, d + au and au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}} = 200$ gev, and in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}} = 62.4$ gev. in these spectra, electrons from semi-leptonic decays of charmed particles are the dominant contribution after subtraction of all 'photonic' sources (photon conversions, dalitz decays, decays of light vector mesons). the p + p open charm production cross-section is found to be in good agreement with pqcd nlo calculations. the shape of the distributions obtained for p + p interactions is compared with those observed for nucleus-nucleus collisions. from p + p to d + au and au + au interactions, open charm production is found to scale with the number of binary collisions $n_{\rm coll}$ . au + au data at $\sqrt{s_{nn}} = 62.4$ gev is compatible with the isr p + p results scaled by $n_{\rm coll}$ . the elliptic flow parameter v2 of heavy flavor electrons has also been measured, and is found to be non-zero in the intermediate pt range.
recent high- $p_{\rm t}$ results from star. the star collaboration has a broad range of recent results on intermediate and high- $p_{\rm t}$ phenomena in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 and 62 gev and in d + au at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. these include new measurements of spectra, azimuthal anisotropies and di-hadron correlations. the comparison of the 62 and 200 gev au + au results indicates that jet quenching, elliptic flow and di-hadron correlation measurements are very similar at the two energies. meson-baryon differences that have been seen at intermediate $p_{\rm t}$ in 200 gev au + au collisions are also present in 62 gev au + au collisions and in 200 gev d + au collisions. measurements of backward-forward inclusive hadron yield asymmetries and forward-midrapidity di-hadron correlations in d + au collisions are consistent with the saturation picture. a brief review of these results is presented.
open charm production from d + au collisions in star. charmed hadrons are interesting observables in heavy ion collisions. they are becoming more accessible to experimental scrutiny at rhic energies due to the increased production cross-section of charm with the larger centre-of-mass energy available at rhic compared to sps. one source of interest in charm production is due to the fact that gluon fusion dominates the charm production cross-section at high energy. hence, a measurement of charm hadrons is directly sensitive to the gluon distributions of the colliding particles. in addition, any measurement of production at rhic, and more importantly any observed suppression, must be compared to the overall production of pairs. a systematic study of charmed hadrons in all collision systems available at rhic is therefore an invaluable experimental tool in the characterization of the matter produced at rhic. in particular, d + au collisions are a necessary step for the comparison of any possible modification of charm production in au + au collisions. we present preliminary results on d meson production from d + au collisions in star at = 200 .
speciation of technetium(iv) chloride under gamma irradiation. speciation of tc in aqueous solution is a complex phenomenon because several parameters intervene simultaneously. we show under gamma radiations, it is completely modified. at ph 8.5 tco$_2$ is oxidized to tc(vii) with a yield of 1.38×10$^^{−7}$ mol j${−1}$. at ph 1.5, it was demonstrated that tc is present as hydroxylated species tc$_no_y^{(4n-2y)+}$ (l. vichot, m. fattahi, m. musikas: radiochim. acta 91, 263 (2003)). its oxidation leads also to tc(vii) with an experimental yield of 1.45×10$^{−7}$ mol j$^{−1}. in more acidic solutions, results are consistent with hydrolysis and oxidation of tc(iv) to tc(v). as for colloidal solutions of tc(iv) or tco$_2$, they give tc(vii) whereas solutions of tccl$_6^{2-}$ at ph 0.5 and 1.5 do not lead directly to tc(vii). reduced states of tc are very sensitive to radiation. hydrolysis as well as polymerisation of tc are accelerated. furthermore the radiolytic processes are ph dependent.
parity-violating electroweak asymmetry in polarized-e p scattering. null
measurement of transverse single-spin asymmetries for mid-rapidity production of neutral pions and charged hadrons in polarized p+p collisions at $\sqrt{s} = 200 gev. the transverse single-spin asymmetries of neutral pions and non-identified charged hadrons have been measured at mid-rapidity in polarized proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s) = 200 gev. the data cover a transverse momentum (p_t) range 0.5-5.0 gev/c for charged hadrons and 1.0-5.0 gev/c for neutral pions, at a feynman-x (x_f) value of approximately zero. the asymmetries seen in this previously unexplored kinematic region are consistent with zero within statistical errors of a few percent. in addition, the inclusive charged hadron cross section at mid-rapidity from 0.5 &lt; p_t &lt; 7.0 gev/c is presented and compared to nlo pqcd calculations. successful description of the unpolarized cross section above ~2 gev/c using nlo pqcd suggests that pqcd is applicable in the interpretation of the asymmetry results in the relevant kinematic range.
alice technical design report of the computing. null
the muon spectrometer of the alice experiment. the main goal of the muon spectrometer of the alice experiment is the measurement of heavy quarks in pp, pa and aa collisions at lhc energies, via the muonic channel. physics motivations, the apparatus and its physics performances are presented in this talk.
constructing the nuclear caloric curve from thermal bremsstrahlung. the behavior of the emission of thermal bremsstrahlung with the reaction centrality has been studied in $^{129}$xe + $^{nat}$sn reactions at 50a mev. a thermal hard photon component is present along the measured impact parameter range (0.1 $\leq$ b/b$_{max} \leq$ 0.6) showing the formation of a thermal equilibrated system. the temperature of the system (4.4 – 6.8 mev) exhibits a lower dependence on the excitation energy ($\epsilon^{\star}$, filled $\sim$ 2.8–8.7mev) than the expected for a fermi fluid.
charmonia enhancement in quark–gluon plasma with improved description of c-quarks phase distribution. we present a dynamical model of heavy quark evolution in the quark–gluon plasma (qgp) based on the fokker–planck equation. we then apply this model to the case of central ultra-relativistic nucleus–nucleus collisions performed at rhic and estimate the component of $j/\psi$ production (integrated and differential) stemming from $c–\bar{\rm c}$ pairs that are initially uncorrelated.
multi-strange baryon production in au+au collisions at top rhic energy as a probe of bulk properties. we report star preliminary results on multi-strange baryon production in au+au collisions at ${\sqrt{s_{\rm nn}}=200}\,{\rm gev}$ at rhic. its implication for the formation of a new state of matter is discussed. the system size dependence on the production of strange baryons is investigated to study the onset of strange quark equilibration in the medium. the nuclear modification factor of $\lambda, \xi$ and $\omega$ is also presented. its suppression at $p_t$ &gt; 3 gev/c supports the formation of a dense interacting medium at rhic. the spectra of multi-strange baryons reveal that within a hydro-inspired model, they may decouple earlier than lighter particles and that their flow may be mostly developed at a partonic level. this idea is emphasized by the measurement of the $v_2$ of ${\xi^{-}}+{\bar{\xi}^{+}}$ and ${\omega^{-}}+{\bar{\omega}^{+}}$ whose behaviour is close to the $\lambda+\bar{\lambda}$ baryon elliptic flow in the intermediate $p_t$ region where a constituent quark scaling of $v_2$ is observed.
transport theories for heavy-ion collisions in the 1 a gev regime. we compare multiplicities as well as rapidity and transverse momentum distributions of protons, pions and kaons calculated within presently available transport approaches for heavy-ion collisions around 1 a gev. for this purpose, three reactions have been selected: au+au at 1 and 1.48 a gev and ni+ni at 1.93 a gev.
physics of the muon spectrometer of the alice experiment. the main goal of the muon spectrometer of the alice experiment at lhc is the measurement of heavy quark production in p+p, p+a and a+a collisions at lhc energies, via the muonic channel. physics motivations and expected performances have been presented in this talk.
charm production in antiproton-nucleus collisions at the $j/\psi$ and the $\psi'$ thresholds. we discuss the production of charmonium states in antiproton–nucleus ollisions at the $\psi'$ threshold. it is explained that measurements in in $\overline{p}a$ collisions will allow to get new information about the strengths of the inelastic $j/\psin$ and $\psi'n$ interaction, on the production of $\lambda_c$ and $\overline{d}$ in charmonium interaction, on the production of $\delta_c$ and $\overline{d}$ in charmonium–nucleon interactions and for the first time about the nondiagonal transitions $\psi'n \to j/\psin$. the inelastic $j/\psi$-nucleon cross section is extracted from the comparison of hadron–nucleus collisions with hadron–nucleon collisions. we extract the total $j/\psi$-nucleon cross section from photon–nucleon collisions by accounting for the color transparency phenomenon within the frame of the gvdm (generalized vector meson dominance model). we evaluate within the gvdm the inelastic $\psi'$-nucleon cross section as well as the cross section for the nondiagonal transitions. predictions for the ratio of $j/\psi$ to $\psi'$ yields in antiproton–nucleus scatterings close to the threshold of $\psi'$ production for different nuclear targets are presented.
the silicon strip detector for star. the star silicon strip detector (ssd) completes the three layers of the silicon vertex tracker (svt) already installed inside the time projection chamber (tpc). this additional fourth layer provides two-dimensional hit position and energy loss measurements for charged particles, improving the star tracking performances and the extrapolation of the tpc tracks to the svt hits. the design of the barrel is described; in particular the choice of the tape automated bonding (tab) technique to connect the detectors to their front-end electronics (fee). several hardware aspects of the detector are presented like the power supply, the readout chain and the cooling system, as well as the production chain from the detection module to the barrel.
direct decay of the gqr in $^{40}$ca through alpha-particle emission. inelastic scattering of 40ca on 40ca at 50 mev/a has been measured at the ganil facility in coincidence with light charged particles. for the first time, the speg spectrometer was associated with 240 csi(tl) scintillators of the indra 4π array. the missing energy method, successfully used in previous experiments to study the nucleon decay of collective states is applied to the study of alpha-particle decay of the gqr. a significant direct decay branch by alpha-particles of the gqr in 40ca is measured for the first time.
investigation of nucleon-induced reactions in the fermi energy domain within the microscopic dywan model. a microscopic investigation of nucleon-induced reactions is addressed within the dywan model, which is based on the projection methods of out of equilibrium statistical physics and on the mathematical theory of wavelets. due to a strongly compressed representation of the fermionic wave functions, the numerical simulations of the nucleon transport in target are therefore able to preserve the quantum nature of the colliding system, as well as a least biased many-body information needed to keep track of the cluster formation. a special attention is devoted to the fingerprints of the phase space topology induced by the fluctuations of the self-consistent mean-field. comparisons between theoretical results and experimental data point out that etdhf type approaches are well suited to describe reaction mechanisms in the fermi energy domain. the observed sensitivity to physical effects shows that the nucleon-induced reactions provide a valuable probe of the nuclear interaction in this range of energy.
midrapidity direct-photon production in $p+p$ collisions at $\sqrt{s}$ = 200 gev. a measurement of direct photons in $p+p$ collisions at $\sqrt{s}$=200 gev is presented. a photon excess above background from $\pi^0\rightarrow\gamma+\gamma$, $\eta\rightarrow\gamma+\gamma$, and other decays is observed in the transverse momentum range $5.5 &lt; p_t &lt; 7 gev/c$. the result is compared to a next-to-leading-order perturbative qcd calculation. within errors, good agreement is found between the qcd calculation and the measured result.
interferometry of direct photons in central 208pb+208pb collisions at 158a gev. two-particle correlations of direct photons were measured in central 208pb+208pb collisions at 158a gev. the invariant interferometric radii were extracted for 100.
alice: physics performance report, volume 1. alice is a general-purpose heavy-ion experiment designed to study the physics of strongly interacting matter and the quark-gluon plasma in nucleus-nucleus collisions at the lhc. it currently includes more than 900 physicists and senior engineers, from both nuclear and high-energy physics, from about 80 institutions in 28 countries. the experiment was approved in february 1997. the detailed design of the different detector systems has been laid down in a number of technical design reports issued between mid-1998 and the end of 2001 and construction has started for most detectors. since the last comprehensive information on detector and physics performance was published in the alice technical proposal in 1996, the detector as well as simulation, reconstruction and analysis software have undergone significant development. the physics performance report (ppr) will give an updated and comprehensive summary of the current status and performance of the various alice subsystems, including updates to the technical design reports, where appropriate, as well as a description of systems which have not been published in a technical design report.
pion, kaon, proton and anti-proton transverse momentum distributions from p+p and d+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}} = 200$ gev. identified mid-rapidity particle spectra of $\pi^{\pm}$, $k^{\pm}$, and $p(\bar{p})$ from 200 gev p+p and d+au collisions are reported. a time-of-flight detector based on multi-gap resistive plate chamber technology is used for particle identification. the particle-species dependence of the cronin effect is observed to be significantly smaller than that at lower energies. the ratio of the nuclear modification factor ($r_{dau}$) between protons $(p+\bar{p})$ and charged hadrons ($h$) in the transverse momentum range $1.2&lt;{p_{t}}&lt;3.0$ gev/c is measured to be $1.19\pm0.05$(stat)$\pm0.03$(syst) in minimum-bias collisions and shows little centrality dependence. the yield ratio of $(p+\bar{p})/h$ in minimum-bias d+au collisions is found to be a factor of 2 lower than that in au+au collisions, indicating that the cronin effect alone is not enough to account for the relative baryon enhancement observed in heavy ion collisions at rhic.
photon physics in heavy ion collisions at the lhc. various pion and photon production mechanisms in high-energy nuclear collisions at rhic and lhc are discussed. comparison with rhic data is done whenever possible. the prospect of using electromagnetic probes to characterize quark-gluon plasma formation is assessed.
retention of toxic substances on consolidated porous systems. characterization of the state of water by means of low field proton nmr and determination of kd values using capillaries. null
modelling the alteration gel composition of simplified borosilicate glasses by precipitation of an ideal solid solution in equilibrium with the leachant. the modelling of the alteration process of two model glasses (si–al–b–na and si–al–b–na–ca–zr), having the same molar ratio as the french reference son68 glass, with the geochemical code kindis was studied. the formation of the alteration layer was simulated by the precipitation of an ideal solid solution. this simulation study was compared then with the alteration experiments carried out in parallel: glasses were placed at 363 k in pure water at two different s/v ratios (1 and 80 cm−1) for duration of 30–180 days. the thermodynamic stability of the siliceous end-members of the solid solution has a fundamental influence on the simulation results. thus, with suitable end-members (chalcedony and hydroxides), the simulation allows one to reproduce with a good agreement the evolution of the silicon content in solution as well as the chemical composition of the gel layer. the experimental results and the simulations seem to indicate a control of the gel composition over the glass dissolution process.
coplanar ternary decay of hyper-deformed $^{56}$ni. ternary fission events from the decay of $^{56}$ni compound nuclei, formed in the $^{32}$s + $^{24}$mg reaction at $e_{lab}(^{32}s)$ = 163.5 mev, have been measured in a unique set-up consisting of two large area position sensitive (x,y) gas detector telescopes. very narrow out-of-plane correlations are observed for two fragments emitted in either purely binary events or in events with a missing mass consisting of 2 and 3 $\alpha$-particles. these correlations are interpreted as ternary fission decay from compound nuclei at high angular momenta through an elongated (hyper-deformed) shape with very large moments of inertia, where the lighter mass in the neck region remains at rest.
centrality dependence of direct photon production in sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev au+au collisions. the first measurement of direct photons in au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev is presented. the direct photon signal is extracted as a function of the au+au collision centrality and compared to nlo pqcd calculations. the direct photon yield is shown to scale with the number of nucleon-nucleon collisions for all centralities.
experimental and theoretical challenges in the search for the quark gluon plasma : the star collaboration's critical assessment of the evidence from rhic collisions. we review the most important experimental results from the first three years of nucleus-nucleus collision studies at rhic, with emphasis on results from the star experiment, and we assess their interpretation and comparison to theory. the theory-experiment comparison suggests that central au+au collisions at rhic produce dense, rapidly thermalizing matter characterized by: (1) initial energy densities above the critical values predicted by lattice qcd for establishment of a quark-gluon plasma (qgp); (2) nearly ideal fluid flow, marked by constituent interactions of very short mean free path, established most probably at a stage preceding hadron formation; and (3) opacity to jets. many of the observations are consistent with models incorporating qgp formation in the early collision stages, and have not found ready explanation in a hadronic framework. however, the measurements themselves do not yet establish unequivocal evidence for a transition to this new form of matter. the theoretical treatment of the collision evolution, despite impressive successes, invokes a suite of distinct models, degrees of freedom and assumptions of as yet unknown quantitative consequence. we pose a set of important open questions, and suggest additional measurements, at least some of which should be addressed in order to establish a compelling basis to conclude definitively that thermalized, deconfined quark-gluon matter has been produced at rhic.
multiplicity and pseudorapidity distributions of photons in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 62.4 gev. we present the first measurement of multiplicity and pseudorapidity distributions of photons in the pseudorapidity region 2.3 $\le$ $\eta$ $\le$ 3.7 for different centralities in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 62.4 gev. we find that the photon yield in this pseudorapidity range scales with the number of participating nucleons at all collision centralities studied. the pseudorapidity distribution of photons, dominated by neutral pion decays, has been compared to those of identified charged pions, photons, and inclusive charged particles from heavy ion and nucleon-nucleon collisions at various energies. the photon production in the measured pseudorapidity region has been shown to be consistent with the energy and centrality independent limiting fragmentation scenario.
distributions of charged hadrons associated with high transverse momentum particles in pp and au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. charged hadrons in 0.15 &lt; pt &lt; 4 gev/c associated with particles of pt^trig &gt; 4 gev/c are reconstructed in pp and au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn)=200 gev. the associated multiplicity and pt magnitude sum are found to increase from pp to central au+au collisions. the associated pt distributions, while similar in shape on the near side, are significantly softened on the away side in central au+au relative to pp and not much harder than that of inclusive hadrons. the results, consistent with jet quenching, suggest that the away-side fragments approach equilibration with the medium traversed.
probing bulk properties and partonic collectivity via multi-strange baryons in au+au collisions at top rhic energy. null
double helicity asymmetry in inclusive midrapidity$\pi^0$ production for polarized p+p collisions at $\sqrt s $=200 gev. we present a measurement of the double longitudinal spin asymmetry in inclusive pi^0 production in polarized proton-proton collisions at sqrt(s)=200 gev. the data were taken at the relativistic heavy ion collider with average beam polarizations of 26%. the measurements are the first of a program to study the longitudinal spin structure of the proton, using strongly interacting probes, at collider energies. the asymmetry is presented for transverse momenta 1-5 gev/c at mid-rapidity, where next-to-leading order perturbative quantum chromodynamic (nlo pqcd) calculations describe the unpolarized cross section well. the observed asymmetry is small and is compared with a nlo pqcd calculation with a range of polarized gluon distributions.
neutron and light-charged-particle productions in proton-induced reactions on $^{208}$pb at 62.9 mev. neutrons and light charged particles produced in 62.9mev proton-induced reactions on 208pb were measured during a single experiment performed at the cyclone facility in louvain-la-neuve (belgium). two independent experimental set-ups were used to extract double differential cross-sections for neutrons, protons, deuterons, tritons, 3he and alpha-particles. charged particles were detected using a set of si- si- csi telescopes from 25° to 155°, by step of 10 degrees. neutrons were measured using shielded demon counters, liquid ne213 scintillators, at 24°, 35°, 55°, 80° and 120°. these data allowed the determination of angle differential, energy differential and total production cross-sections. a comparison with theoretical calculations (mcnpx, fluka and talys) has been performed. it shows that the neutron and proton production rates are well predicted by mcnpx, using the incl4 option. all the other codes underestimate the neutron production whereas they overestimate the proton one. for composite particles, which represent 17% of the charged particle total reaction cross-section, neither the shape nor the amplitude of the cross-sections are correctly predicted by the models.
radio detection of cosmic ray air shower by the codalema experiment. the possibilities of measuring extremely high energy cosmic rays (ehecr) by radio detection of electromagnetic pulses radiated during the development of extensive air showers in the atmosphere are investigated. we present the demonstrative codalema experiment, set up at nancay radio-observatory (france). the radio-decametric array has been adapted to measure radio transients in time coincidence between antennas.
new prospects on particle detection with a parallel ionization multiplier (pim). we report on discharge rate measurements performed with parallel ionization multiplier (pim) detectors in a 10 gev hadron beam. various pim configurations with two amplification gaps are considered, and compared to a micromegas-like single-gap configuration. when the two stages of amplification are placed directly on top of one another, the discharge rate is found to be systematically greater than in the single-gap case, whatever the electric fields are in the two stages. moreover, the rate is strongly correlated with the total thickness of the amplification gap. however, when the two amplification stages are separated by a transfer gap, the discharge rate can be reduced by up to a factor of 50 at a gain of 5000 with a ne+10%co2 gas mixture.
vibration–displacement measurements based on a polarimetric extrinsic fibre fabry–perot interferometer. a polarization-based extrinsic fibre fabry–perot interferometric sensor for the measurement of velocity and displacement of a vibrating target is demonstrated in this work. it operates on the principle of dual interference within a single interferometric or 'sensing' arm which, in addition, provides a sense of direction of the moving target. this has been made possible by the introduction of a retarding film positioned along the optical path between the sensing fibre end and the intended target. two sets of interference signals are thus propagated and detected along one fibre arm to give robust and repeatable displacement–velocity information which has been found to be relatively insensitive to other external effects such as minor temperature changes. the sensor has been found to be capable of measuring the desired velocity information of an inclined target while typical excitation frequencies investigated ranged from ~ 2 to 60 hz. experimental results from a sensor configuration employing a polarization-maintaining (panda type) fibre as the sensing arm and operated at 1310 nm are presented.
parallel ionization multiplier (pim): application of a new concept of gaseous structure to tracking detectors. a new amplifying structure has been developed for beta imaging detectors: the parallel ionization multiplier (pim). pim is made of a thin sandwich of two metallic micromeshes separated by a new laser machined insulating spacer. this structure allows high gain (105) with a good efficiency and a two-dimensional spatial resolution below 50 small mu, greekm without strong discharge limitation. the capabilities of the pim are now investigated in order to be used by high-energy physics experiments. a prototype of a tracking detector for charged particles using the pim structure will be described. thanks to the very small avalanche extension, the use of a highly segmented anode is possible. this detector would support high rate running conditions of hadron experiment.
extrinsic fibre fabry-perot interferometer for vibration and displacement measurement: the benefit of polarization decomposition. we have successfully developed a new design of an extrinsic fibre fabry-perot interferometer (efpi) sensor dedicated to the characterization of vibration and displacement of a target. this device, based on a low finesse fabry-perot cavity formed by the end of a 'sensing' optical fibre and the target, gives information on the direction of the motion without the use of an additional reference arm. the incoming light, emitted by a 1310 nm laser diode, is decomposed according to two orthogonal polarization orientation inside the cavity. the two resulting interference signals are then carried back by the same optical fibre and sent to two photodiodes via a coupler and a polarizing beam splitter. with a relativelysimple signal processing, a precision of lambda/4 is achieved for the measurement of the displacement, for which the direction is also extracted. in addition, one can determine the velocity of the motion, that have been successfully compared with a reference sensor. the use of a polarization maintaining fibre as sensing arm, not mandatory formonitored laboratory set-up, allows the use of this sensor principle even with external perturbation (temperature changes, mechanical stress...).
$\beta$-imaging with the pim device. the $\beta$ autoradiography is an imaging technique which allows the two dimensional localisation of the distribution of a molecule labelled with 3h or 14c in tissue sample. in collaboration with the biospace mesures company, we developed a new micropattern gaseous detector called parallel ionization multiplier (pim) dedicated to the $\beta$ imaging. the images obtained show characteristics in adequation with the autoradiography requirements as a 2d spatial resolution (fwhm) of click to view the mathml source (respectively click to view the mathml source) and an efficiency of 85% (respectively 50%) for 3h (respectively 14c).
j/psi production in au-au collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev at the relativistic heavy ion collider. first results on charm quarkonia production in heavy ion collisions at the relativistic heavy ion collider (rhic) are presented. the yield of j/psi's measured in the phenix experiment via electron-positron decay pairs at mid-rapidity for au-au reactions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev are analyzed as a function of collision centrality. for this analysis we have studied 49.3 million minimum bias au-au reactions. we present the j/psi invariant yield dn/dy for peripheral and mid-central reactions. for the most central collisions where we observe no signal above background, we quote 90% confidence level upper limits. we compare these results with our j/psi measurement from proton-proton reactions at the same energy. we find that our measurements are not consistent with models that predict strong enhancement relative to binary collision scaling.
mid-rapidity neutral pion production in proton-proto collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev. the invariant differential cross section for inclusive neutral pion production in p+p collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev has been measured at mid-rapidity |eta| &lt; 0.35 over the range 1 &lt; p_t &lt;~ 14 gev/c by the phenix experiment at rhic. predictions of next-to-leading order perturbative qcd calculations are consistent with these measurements. the precision of our result is sufficient to differentiate between prevailing gluon-to-pion fragmentation functions.
azimuthal anisotropy of photon and charged particle emission in pb+pb collisions at 158 a gev/c. the azimuthal distributions of photons and charged particles with respect to the event plane are investigated as a function of centrality in pb + pb collisions at 158 a gev/c in the wa98 experiment at the cern sps. the anisotropy of the azimuthal distributions is characterized using a fourier analysis. for both the photon and charged particle distributions the first two fourier coefficients are observed to decrease with increasing centrality. the observed anisotropies of the photon distributions compare well with the expectations from the charged particle measurements for all centralities.
spin asymmetries for events with high p_t hadrons in dis and an evaluation of the gluon polarization. we present a measurement of the longitudinal spin cross section asymmetry for deep inelastic muon-nucleon interactions with two high transverse momentum hadrons in the final state. two methods of event classification are used to increase the contribution of the photon gluon fusion process to above 30%. the most effective one, based on a neural network approach, provides the asymmetries a_p(ln-&gt;lhhx)=0.030+/-0.057+/-0.010 and a_d(ln-&gt;lhhx)=0.070+/-0.076+/-0.010. from these values we derive an averaged gluon polarization delta(g)/g=-0.20+/-0.28+/-0.10 at an average fraction of nucleon momentum carried by gluons eta=0.07.
letter of intent for double-chooz: a search for the mixing angle theta13. tremendous progress has been achieved in neutrino oscillation physics during the last few years. however, the smallness of the $\t13$ neutrino mixing angle still remains enigmatic. the current best constraint comes from the chooz reactor neutrino experiment $\s2t13 &lt; 0.2$ (at 90% c.l., for $\adm2=2.0 10^{-3} \text{ev}^2$). we propose a new experiment on the same site, double-chooz, to explore the range of $\s2t13$ from 0.2 to 0.03, within three years of data taking. the improvement of the chooz result requires an increase in the statistics, a reduction of the systematic error below one percent, and a careful control of the cosmic ray induced background. therefore, double-chooz will use two identical detectors, one at $\sim$150 m and another at 1.05 km distance from the nuclear cores. the plan is to start data taking with two detectors in 2008, and to reach a sensitivity of 0.05 in 2009, and 0.03 in 2011.
a micro-canonical description of hadron production in proton-proton collisions. a micro-canonical treatment is used to study particle production in pp collisions. first this micro-canonical treatment is compared to some canonical ones. then proton, antiproton and pion 4(\pi) multiplicities from proton-proton collisions at various center of mass energies are used to fix the micro-canonical parameters (e) and (v). the dependences of the micro-canonical parameters on the collision energy are parameterised for the further study of pp reactions with this micro-canonical treatment.
micro-canonical hadron production in pp collisions. we apply a microcanonical statistical model to investigate hadron production in pp collisions. the parameters of the model are the energy e and the volume v of the system, which we determine via fitting the average multiplicity of charged pions, protons and antiprotons in pp collisions at different collision energies. we then make predictions of mean multiplicities and mean transverse momenta of all identified hadrons. our predictions on nonstrange hadrons are in good agreement with the data, the mean transverse momenta of strange hadron as well. however, the mean multiplicities of strange hadrons are overpredicted. this agrees with canonical and grandcanonical studies, where a strange suppression factor is needed. we also investigate the influence of event-by-event fluctuations of the e parameter.
a novel mechanism of h^0 di-baryon production in proton-proton interactions from parton based gribov-regge theory. a novel mechanism of h^0 and strangelet production in hadronic interactions within the gribov-regge approach is presented. in contrast to traditional distillation approaches, here the production of multiple (strange) quark bags does not require large baryon densities or a qgp. the production cross section increases with center of mass energy. rapidity and transverse momentum distributions of the h^0 are predicted for pp collisions at e_lab = 160 agev (sps) and \sqrt s = 200 agev (rhic). the predicted total h^0 multiplicities are of order of the omega-baryon yield and can be accessed by the na49 and the star experiments.
production of theta(1540) and xi pentaquark states in proton-proton interactions. the production of strange pentaquark states (e.g. theta baryons and xi^-- states) in hadronic interactions within a gribov-regge approach is explored. in this approach the theta^+(1540) and the xi pentaquark are produced by disintegration of remnants formed by the exchange of pomerons between the two protons. we predict the rapidity and transverse momentum distributions as well as the 4 pi multiplicity of the theta^+, xi^--, xi^-, xi^0 and xi^+ for sqrt{s} = 17 gev (sps) and 200 gev (rhic). for both energies more than 10^{-3} theta^+ and more than 10^{-5} xi per pp event should be observed by the present experiments.
production of pentaquark states in pp collisions within the microcanonical ensemble. the microcanonical statistical approach is applied to study the production of pentaquark states in pp collisions. we predict the average multiplicity and average transverse momentum of theta^{+}(1540) and xi(1860) and their antiparticles at different energies.
proton-proton and deuteron-gold collisions at rhic. we try to understand recent data on proton-proton and deuteron-gold collisions at rhic, employing a modified parton model approach.
ultra-high energy cosmic rays: some general features, and recent developments concerning air shower computations. we present an introductory lecture on general features of cosmic rays, for non-experts, and some recent developments concerning cascade equations for air shower developments.
first results of fast one-dimensional hybrid simulation of eas using conex. a hybrid simulation code is developed that is suited for fast one-dimensional simulations of shower profiles, including fluctuations. it combines the monte carlo simulation of high energy interactions with a fast numerical solution of cascade equations for the resulting distributions of secondary particles. results obtained with this new code, called conex, are presented and compared to corsika predictions.
pion interferometry in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. we present a systematic analysis of two-pion interferometry in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{\mathrm{s}_{_{\mathrm{nn}}}}$ = 200 gev using the star detector at rhic. we extract the hbt radii and study their multiplicity, transverse momentum, and azimuthal angle dependence. estimates of the geometrical and dynamical structure of the freeze-out source are extracted by fits with blast wave parameterizations. the expansion of the source and its relation with the initial energy density distribution is studied.
fission barriers in the quasi-molecular shape path. null
phenix high p(t) results. in heavy ion collisions, the high pt observables convey information about the initial conditions of the system under study. the suppression of high pt neutral pion and charged hadrons yields with respect to the nucleon-nucleon binary scaled p-p collisions and the particle composition in au+au collisions (as measured by the phenix experiment during the first two runs of the relativistic heavy ion collider (rhic)) are briefly reviewed. finally, the newest results from the rhic run 3 d+au, which disentangle initial and final state effects, are presented.
centrality dependence of charm production from a measurement of single electrons in au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev. the phenix experiment has measured mid-rapidity transverse momentum spectra (0.4 &lt; p_t &lt; 4.0 gev/c) of single electrons as a function of centrality in au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev. contributions to the raw spectra from photon conversions and dalitz decays of light neutral mesons are measured by introducing a thin (1.7% x_0) converter into the phenix acceptance and are statistically removed. the subtracted ``non-photonic'' electron spectra are primarily due to the semi-leptonic decays of hadrons containing heavy quarks (charm and bottom). for all centralities, charm production is found to scale with the nuclear overlap function, t_aa. for minimum-bias collisions the charm cross section per binary collision is n_cc^bar/t_aa = 622 +/- 57 (stat.) +/- 160 (sys.) microbarns.
systematic studies of the centrality and sqrt(s_nn) dependence of de_t/deta and dn_ch/deta in heavy ion collisions at mid-rapidity. the phenix experiment at rhic has measured transverse energy and charged particle multiplicity at mid-rapidity in au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 19.6, 130 and 200 gev as a function of centrality. the presented results are compared to measurements from other rhic experiments, and experiments at lower energies. the sqrt(s_nn) dependence of de_t/deta and dn_ch/deta per pair of participants is consistent with logarithmic scaling for the most central events. the centrality dependence of de_t/deta and dn_ch/deta is similar at all measured incident energies. at rhic energies the ratio of transverse energy per charged particle was found independent of centrality and growing slowly with sqrt(s_nn). a survey of comparisons between the data and available theoretical models is also presented.
formation of dense partonic matter in relativistic nucleus-nucleus collisions at rhic: experimental evaluation by the phenix collaboration. extensive experimental data from high-energy nucleus-nucleus collisions were recorded using the phenix detector at the relativistic heavy ion collider (rhic). the comprehensive set of measurements from the first three years of rhic operation includes charged particle multiplicities, transverse energy, yield ratios and spectra of identified hadrons in a wide range of transverse momenta (p_t), elliptic flow, two-particle correlations, non-statistical fluctuations, and suppression of particle production at high p_t. the results are examined with an emphasis on implications for the formation of a new state of dense matter. we find that the state of matter created at rhic cannot be described in terms of ordinary color neutral hadrons.
production of $\phi$ mesons at mid-rapidity in sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev au+au collisions at relativistic energies. we present the first results of meson production in the k^+k^- decay channel from au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev as measured at mid-rapidity by the phenix detector at rhic. precision resonance centroid and width values are extracted as a function of collision centrality. no significant variation from the pdg accepted values is observed. the transverse mass spectra are fitted with a linear exponential function for which the derived inverse slope parameter is seen to be constant as a function of centrality. these data are also fitted by a hydrodynamic model with the result that the freeze-out temperature and the expansion velocity values are consistent with the values previously derived from fitting single hadron inclusive data. as a function of transverse momentum the collisions scaled peripheral.to.central yield ratio rcp for the is comparable to that of pions rather than that of protons. this result lends support to theoretical models which distinguish between baryons and mesons instead of particle mass for explaining the anomalous proton yield.
saturation of azimuthal anisotropy in au + au collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 62 - 200 gev. new measurements are presented for charged hadron azimuthal correlations at mid-rapidity in au+au collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 62.4 and 200 gev. they are compared to earlier measurements obtained at sqrt(s_nn) = 130 gev and in pb+pb collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 17.2 gev. sizeable anisotropies are observed with centrality and transverse momentum (p_t) dependence characteristic of elliptic flow (v_2). for a broad range of centralities, the observed magnitudes and trends of the differential anisotropy, v_2(p_t), change very little over the collision energy range sqrt(s_nn) = 62-200 gev, indicating saturation of the excitation function for v_2 at these energies. such a saturation may be indicative of the dominance of a very soft equation of state for sqrt(s_nn) = 62-200 gev.
are vertical cosmic rays the most suitable to radio detection ?. the electric field induced by extensive air showers generated by high energy cosmic rays is considered and, more specifically, its dependence on the shower incident angle. it is shown that for distances between the shower axis and the observation point larger than a few hundred meters, non-vertical showers produce larger fields than vertical ones. this may open up new prospects since, to some extent, the consideration of non-vertical showers modifies the scope of the radio-detection domain.
pseudorapidity asymmetry and centrality dependence of charged hadron spectra in $d+au$ collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
nuclear modification factors for hadrons at forward and backward rapidities in deuteron-gold collisions at $\sqrt s_{nn}$ = 200 gev. we report on charged hadron production in deuteron-gold reactions at $\sqrt s_{nn}$ = 200 gev. our measurements in the deuteron-direction cover 1.4 &lt; $\eta$ &lt;$ 2.2, referred to as forward rapidity, and in the gold-direction -2.0$ &lt;$\eta$ &lt;$ -1.4, referred to as backward rapidity, and a transverse momentum range p$_t$ = 0.5-4.0 gev/c. we compare the relative yields for different deuteron-gold collision centrality classes. we observe a suppression relative to binary collision scaling at forward rapidity, sensitive to low momentum fraction (x) partons in the gold nucleus, and an enhancement at backward rapidity, sensitive to high momentum fraction partons in the gold nucleus.
fluctuations and correlations in star. null
measurement of jet modification at rhic. null
full jet reconstruction in d+au and p+p collisions at rhic. null
azimuthal anisotropy: the higher harmonics. null
elliptic flow of multistrange baryons $\xi$ and $\omega$ in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
open charm yields in 200 gev p+p and d+au collisions at rhic. null
high-$p_t$ electron distributions in d+au and p+p collisions at rhic. null
identified particle dependence of nuclear modification factors in d+au collisions at rhic. null
non-identical particle correlations in 130 and 200 a gev collisions at star. null
measurement of open charm production in d+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
highlights from star. null
radiodetection of cosmic ray extensive air showers: upgrade of the codalema experiment. we present the characteristics and performance of a demonstration experiment devoted to the observation of ultra high- energy cosmic ray extensive air showers using a radiodetection technique. in a first step, one antenna narrowed band filtered acting as trigger, with a 4 sigma threshold above sky background-level, was used to tag any radio transient in coincidence on the antenna array. recently, the addition of 4 particle detectors has allowed us to observe cosmic ray events in coincidence with antennas.
measurements of transverse energy distributions in au+au at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
the dynamics of the quasielastic $^{16}o$(e,e'p) reaction at $q^2$ $\approx$ 0.8 (gev/c)$^2$. the physics program in hall a at jefferson lab commenced in the summer of 1997 with a detailed investigation of the 16o(e,e'p) reaction in quasielastic, constant (q,w) kinematics at q^2 ~ 0.8 (gev/c)^2, q ~ 1 gev/c, and w ~ 445 mev. use of a self-calibrating, self-normalizing, thin-film waterfall target enabled a systematically rigorous measurement. differential cross-section data for proton knockout were obtained for 0 &lt; emiss &lt; 120 mev and 0 &lt; pmiss &lt; 350 mev/c. these results have been used to extract the alt asymmetry and the rl, rt, rlt, and rl+tt effective response functions. detailed comparisons of the data with relativistic distorted-wave impulse approximation, relativistic optical-model eikonal approximation, and relativistic multiple-scattering glauber approximation calculations are made. the kinematic consistency of the 1p-shell normalization factors extracted from these data with respect to all available 16o(e,e'p) data is examined. the q2-dependence of the normalization factors is also discussed.
bose-einstein correlations of charged pion pairs in au+au collisions at $\sqrt s_{nn}$=200 gev. bose-einstein correlations of identically charged pion pairs were measured by the phenix experiment at midrapidity in au + au collisions at $\sqrt s_{nn}$=200 gev. the bertsch-pratt radius parameters were determined as a function of the transverse momentum of the pair and as a function of the centrality of the collision. using the standard core-halo partial coulomb fits, and a new parametrization which constrains the coulomb fraction as determined from the unlike-sign pion correlation, the ratio rout/rside is within 0.8–1.1 for 0.25$&lt;$kt$&lt;$1.2 gev/c. the centrality dependence of all radii is well described by a linear scaling in n, and rout/rside for kt$\sim$0.45 gev/c is approximately constant at unity as a function of centrality.
rapidity and centrality dependence of proton and antiproton production from $^{197}$au + $^{197}$au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. null
production of $e^+e^-$ pairs accompanied by nuclear dissociation in ultraperipheral heavy-ion collisions. null
hadronization geometry and charge-dependent two-particle correlations on momentum subspace ($\eta, \phi$) in au-au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. we present the first measurements of charge-dependent two-particle correlations on momentum-space difference variables $\eta_1 - \eta_2$ (pseudorapidity) and $\phi_1 - \phi_2$ (azimuth) for primary charged hadrons with transverse momentum $0.15 \leq p_t \leq 2$ gev/$c$ and $|\eta| \leq 1.3$ from au-au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}} = 130$ gev. we observe correlation structures not predicted by theory but consistent with evolution of hadron emission geometry with increasing centrality from one-dimensional fragmentation of color strings to higher-dimensional fragmentation of a hadron-opaque bulk medium.
azimuthal anisotropy and correlations at large transverse momenta in $p+p$ and au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. results on high transverse momentum charged particle emission with respect to the reaction plane are presented for au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{_{nn}}}$= 200 gev. two- and four-particle correlations results are presented as well as a comparison of azimuthal correlations in au+au collisions to those in $p+p$ at the same energy. elliptic anisotropy, $v_2$, is found to reach its maximum at $p_t \sim 3$ gev/c, then decrease slowly and remain significant up to $p_t\approx 7$ -- 10 gev/c. stronger suppression is found in the back-to-back high-$p_t$ particle correlations for particles emitted out-of-plane compared to those emitted in-plane. the centrality dependence of $v_2$ at intermediate $p_t$ is compared to simple models based on jet quenching.
azimuthal anisotropy in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}} = 200 gev. the results from the star collaboration on directed flow ($v_1$), elliptic flow ($v_2$), and the fourth harmonic ($v_4$) in the anisotropic azimuthal distribution of particles from au+au collisions at $\sqrtsnn = 200$ gev are summarized and compared with results from other experiments and theoretical models. results for identified particles are presented and fit with a blast wave model. for $v_2$, scaling with the number of constituent quarks and parton coalescence is discussed. for $v_4$, scaling with $v_2^2$ and quark coalescence predictions for higher harmonic flow is discussed. the different anisotropic flow analysis methods are compared and nonflow effects are extracted from the data.
centrality and pseudorapidity dependence of charged hadron production at intermediate $p_t$ in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$= 130gev. null
entrance channels and alpha decay half-lives of the heaviest elements. the barriers standing against the formation of superheavy elements and their consecutive $\alpha$ decay have been determined in the quasimolecular shape path within a generalized liquid drop model including the proximity effects between nucleons in a neck, the mass and charge asymmetry, a precise nuclear radius and the shell effects given by the droplet model. for moderately asymmetric reactions double-hump potential barriers stand and fast fission of compact shapes in the outer well is possible. very asymmetric reactions lead to one hump barriers which can be passed only with a high energy relatively to the superheavy element energy. then, only the emission of several neutrons or an $\alpha$ particle can allow to reach an eventual ground state. for almost symmetric heavy-ion reactions, there is no more external well and the inner barrier is higher than the outer one.
kaon production and kaon to pion ratio in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. null
localized charged-neutral fluctuations in 158a gev pb+pb collisions. null
direct photons in wa98. null
event-by-event fluctuations in particle multiplicities and transverse energy produced in 158a gev pb+pb collisions. null
measurement of single electrons and implications for charm production in au+au collisions at $\sqrt {s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. transverse momentum spectra of electrons from au+au collisions at sqrt[snn] = 130 gev have been measured at midrapidity by the phenix experiment at the relativistic heavy ion collider. the spectra show an excess above the background from photon conversions and light hadron decays. the electron signal is consistent with that expected from semileptonic decays of charm. the yield of the electron signal dne/dy for pt&gt;0.8 gev/c is 0.025±0.004(stat)±0.010(syst) in central collisions, and the corresponding charm cross section is 380±60(stat)±200(syst) μb per binary nucleon-nucleon collision.
centrality dependence of $\pi^{+/-}, k^{+/-}, p$ and $\bar p$ production from $\sqrt s_{nn}$ = 130 gev au+au collisions at rhic. null
midrapidity neutral-pion production in proton-proton collisions at $\sqrt{s}$ = 200 gev. the invariant differential cross section for inclusive neutral pion production in p+p collisions at sqrt(s_nn) = 200 gev has been measured at mid-rapidity |eta| &lt; 0.35 over the range 1 &lt; p_t &lt;~ 14 gev/c by the phenix experiment at rhic. predictions of next-to-leading order perturbative qcd calculations are consistent with these measurements. the precision of our result is sufficient to differentiate between prevailing gluon-to-pion fragmentation functions.
centrality dependence of charged-neutral particle fluctuations in 158a gev $^{208}$pb+$^{208}$pb collisions. null
centrality dependence of the high $p_t$ charged hadron suppression in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. null
cross sections and transverse single-spin asymmetries in forward neutral-pion production from proton collisions at $\sqrt{s} $ = 200 gev. null
azimuthally sensitive hanbury brown-twiss interferometry in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = gev. null
radio detection of cosmic ray extensive air showers: present status of the codalema experiment. data acquisition and analysis for the codalema experiment, in operation for more than one year, has provided improved knowledge of the characteristics of this new device. at the same time, an important effort has been made to develop processing techniques for extracting transient signals from data containing interference.
nucleon-induced reactions at intermediate energies: new data at 96 mev and theoretical status. double-differential cross sections for light charged particle production (up to a = 4) were measured in 96 mev neutron-induced reactions, at the tsl laboratory cyclotron in uppsala (sweden). measurements for three targets, fe, pb, and u, were performed using two independent devices, scandal and medley. the data were recorded with low-energy thresholds and for a wide angular range (20°–160°). the normalization procedure used to extract the cross sections is based on the np elastic scattering reaction that we measured and for which we present experimental results. a good control of the systematic uncertainties affecting the results is achieved. calculations using the exciton model are reported. two different theoretical approaches proposed to improve its predictive power regarding the complex particle emission are tested. the capabilities of each approach is illustrated by comparison with the 96 mev data that we measured, and with other experimental results available in the literature.
new adsorbents from oil shales: preparation characterization and u, th isotope adsorption tests. null
virtual compton scattering in the resonance region up to the deep inelastic region at backward angles and momentum transfer squared of $q^2$ = 1.0 $gev^2$. we have made the first measurements of the virtual compton scattering process via the e p -&gt; e p gamma exclusive reaction at q**2 = 1 gev**2 in the nucleon resonance region. the cross section is obtained at center of mass (cm) backward angle, theta_gamma_gamma*, in a range of total (gamma* p) cm energy w from the proton mass up to w = 1.91 gev. the data show resonant structures in the first and second resonance regions, and are well reproduced at higher w by the bethe-heitler+born cross section, including t-channel pi0-exchange. at high w, our data, together with existing real photon data, show a striking q**2 independence. our measurement of the ratio of h(e,e'p)gamma to h(e,e'p)pi0 cross sections is presented and compared to model predictions.
measurement of the generalized polarizabilities of the proton in virtual compton scattering at $q^2=0.92 and 1.76 gev^2$: i. low energy expansion analysis. null
measurement of the generalized polarizabilities of the proton in virtual compton scattering at $q^2=0.92 and 1.76 gev^2$: ii. dispersion relation analysis. null
measurement of the generalized polarizabilities of the proton in virtual compton scattering at $q^2$ = 0.92 and 1.76 gev$^2$. we report a virtual compton scattering study of the proton in hall a at the thomas jefferson national accelerator facility at low cm energies. we have determined the structure functions $p_{ll}-p_{tt}/\epsilon$ and $p_{lt}$, and the electric and magnetic generalized polarizabilities (gp) $\alpha_e(q2)$ and $\beta_m(q2)$ at momentum transfer q2= 0.92 and 1.76 gev2. all these observables show a strong fall-off with q2, and neither the electric nor magnetic gp follows a simple dipole form.
identified charged particle spectra and yields in au + au collisions at$\sqrt{^snn}$=200 gev. null
high-$p_t$ charged hadron suppression in au-au collisions at $\sqrt s_{nn}$=200 gev. null
$j/\psi$ production from proton-proton collisions at $\sqrt s$=200 gev. null
azimuthal anisotropy at the relativistic heavy ion collider: the first and fourth harmonics. null
backward electroproduction of $\pi^0$ mesons on protons in the region of nucleon resonances at four momentum transfer squared $q^2 = 1.0 gev^2$. exclusive electroproduction of pi0 mesons on protons in the backward hemisphere has been studied at q2=1.0 gev2 by detecting protons in the forward direction in coincidence with scattered electrons from the 4 gev electron beam in jefferson lab's hall a. the data span the range of the total (gamma*p) center-of-mass energy w from the pion production threshold to w=2.0 gev. the differential cross sections sigmat+epsilonsigmal, sigmatl, and sigmatt were separated from the azimuthal distribution and are presented together with the maid and said parametrizations.
scaling properties of proton and antiproton production in $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$=200 gev au+au collisions. null
shape isomerism of rotating $^{44}$ti and $^{48}$cr. null
hindas-a european nuclear data program for accelerator-driven systems. null
cross section data and kerma coefficients for 95 mev neutrons for medical applications. null
be, li, he and h decay half-lives at low excitation energy. null
photon flow in 158 a gev pb+pb collisions. null
new results for hadronic collisions in the framework of the parton-based gribov-regge theory. null
the cross sections between charmonia and comovers within pqcd. null
transfer of eu(iii) associated with polymaleic acid to bacillus subtilis. null
what determines the $k^-$ multiplicity at energies around (1-2)a gev?. null
constraints on models for proton-proton scattering from multistrange baryon data. null
stability of rotating $^{44}$ti, $^{56}$ni, and $^{126}$ba nuclei in the fusionlike deformation path. null
alpha and light nucleus emission within a generalized liquid drop model. null
physics of event generators. null
baryon production in proton-proton collisions. null
hot hadronic matter with the njl model. null
2d localization using resistive strips associated to the micromegas structure. null
consistent treatment of soft and hard processes in hadronic interactions. null
multistrange baryon production from identical pomerons in proton-proton collisions. null
probing hadronization with strangeness. null
is the existence of a softest point in the directed flow excitation function an unambiguous signal for the creation of a quark gluon plasma?. we investigate the claim that a minimum of the excitation function of the in-plane directed flow of nucleons in ultrarelativistic heavy-ion collisions is a ‘smoking gun' signature for the creation of a quark–gluon plasma (qgp). employing a non-equilibrium transport approach we demonstrate that such a minimum is expected in heavy ion collisions and not related to the formation of a qgp. the minimum has its origin in the interplay between a decreasing scattering angle of the elastic collisions with increasing beam energy, which lowers the in-plane flow, and the onset of particle production which increases the in-plane flow. thus, the interpretation of this minimum as a ‘smoking gun' signature for the creation of a qgp seems premature.
transverse-mass dependence of two-pion correlations in au+au collisions at $\sqrt s_{nn}$ = 130 gev. null
overview of phenix results from the first rhic run. null
thermal bremsstrahlung probing the thermodynamical state of multifragmenting systems. null
thermal bremsstrahlung photons probing the nuclear caloric curve. null
first results from rhic-phenix. null
event reconstruction in the phenix central arm spectrometers. null
suppression of hadrons with large transverse momentum in central au+au collisions at $\sqrt s_{nn}$= 130gev. transverse momentum spectra for charged hadrons and for neutral pions in the range 1 gev/c.
precipitation of technetium by subsurface sulfate-reducing bacteria. null
micro-organism effects on radionuclides migration. null
initial condition for quark-gluon plasma evolution. null
analysis of kaon production around the threshold. null
heavy-quarkonium hadron interaction from a leading twist qcd analysis. null
the highly deformed nucleus $^{40}$ca in the fusionlike deformation valley. null
entrance and exit channels for very heavy and superheavy elements. null
overpopulation of $\bar \omega$ in $pp$ collisions: a way to distinguish statistical hadronization from string dynamics. null
thermodynamics of the three-flavor nambu-jona-lasinio model: chiral symmetry breaking and color superconductivity. null
strange resonance production: probing chemical and thermal freeze-out in relativistic heavy ion collisions. null
transverse mass distributions of neutral pions from $^{208}$pb-induced reactions at 158.a gev. null
deuteron and triton production with high energy sulphur and lead beams. null
one-, two- and three-particle distributions from central pb+pb collisions at 158a gev/c. null
event texture search for critical fluctuations in pb+pb collisions. null
on the formation and alpha decay of superheavy elements. null
dissipative and fluctuating effects in nuclear dynamics with a wavelet representation. null
asymmetric fission for $^{70,76}$se and $^{90,94,98}$mo via quasimolecular shapes and related formulas. null
parton-based gribov-regge theory. null
one and two-dimensional analysis of 3$\pi$ correlations measured in pb+pb interactions. null
self-consistency requirement in high-energy nuclear scattering. null
scaling of particle and transverse energy production in $^{208}$pb+$^{208}$pb collisions at 158 a.gev. null
transverse flow of nuclear matter in collisions of heavy nuclei at intermediate energies. null
light nucleus emission within a generalized liquid-drop model and quasimolecular shapes. null
analytic expressions for the proximity energy, the fusion process and the alpha emission. null
thermodynamics-a valuable approach to multifragmentation?. null
influence of the coulomb field on charged particle emission in ar + ni reaction at 77 mev/u. ar+ni collisions at 77 mev/u were studied in the experiment e286 performed at ganil. an important advantage of this experiment was an application of the neutron detector demon for registration of both neutral and charged particles. this feature allows to compare characteristics of neutrons and protons detected by the same detector and gives a possibility to determine the influence of the coulomb field on the proton emission. estimation of a charge of the emitting source was performed by comparing energy spectra of neutrons and protons detected under identical experimental conditions. the experimental results were compared with the prediction of the simon model.
$\rho^0$ production and possible modification in au+au and p+p collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
particle-type dependence of azimuthal anisotropy and nuclear modification of particle production in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
an update from star--using strangeness to probe relativistic heavy ion collisions. null
three-pion hanbury brown-twiss correlations in relativistic heavy-ion collisions from the star experiment. null
$\rho$(770)$^0$ and $f_0$(980) production in au+au and pp collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
$\lambda$ (1520) and $\sigma$(1385) resonance production in au+au and p+p collisions at rhic ($\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev). null
strange and multi-strange particle ratios in p+p reactions at $\sqrt{s}$ = 200 gev at rhic. null
widths of the balance function for charged kaon pairs from au+au at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev at rhic. null
charged and neutral kaon correlations in au-au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev using the solenoidal tracker at rhic (star). null
strange particle spectra from $\sqrt{s}$ = 200 gev p + p collisions in star at rhic. null
probing thermal freeze-out conditions via multi-strange baryons in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. null
nuclear modification of identified strange particles at moderate $p_t$ in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev at rhic. null
charged strange and non-srange particle ratios as a function of $p_t$ and centrality in star at rhic. null
data on light-fragment correlations in $^{40}$ar + $^{58}$ni at 77 mev/nucleon. null
transverse-momentum and collision-energy dependence of high-$p_t$ hadron suppression in au + au collisions at ultrarelativistic energies. null
erratum: midrapidity antiproton-to-proton ratio from au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev [phys.rev.lett.86,4778(2001)]. null
evidence from d + au measurements for final-state suppression of high-p$_t$ hadrons in au + au collisions at rhic. null
coherent vector meson production in ultra-peripheral heavy-ion collisions at star. null
$\xi^-$ and $\overline{\xi}^+$ baryon production in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. null
correlations, fluctuations and flow measurements from the star experiment. null
elastic neutron scattering at 96 mev from $^{12}$c and $^{208}$pb. null
alice addentum to the technical design report of the time of flight system (tof). null
hydrogen isotope double differential production cross sections induced by 62.7 mev neutrons on a lead target. null
light charged particle production cross sections in 62.9 mev proton induced reactions on $^{208}$pb. null
suppression of soft nuclear bremsstrahlung in proton-nucleus collisions. photon energy spectra up to the kinematic limit have been measured in 190 mev proton reactions with light and heavy nuclei to investigate the influence of the multiple-scattering process on the photon production. relative to the predictions of models based on a quasifree production mechanism, a strong suppression of bremsstrahlung is observed in the low-energy region of the photon spectrum. we attribute this effect to the interference of photon amplitudes due to multiple scattering of nucleons in the nuclear medium.
pion interferometry of $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev au + au collisions at rhic. null
the star time projection chamber. null
evidence for thermal equilibration in multifragmentation reactions probed with bremstrahlung photons. null
elliptic flow of identified hadrons in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$=200 gev. null
the star silicon strip detector (ssd). null
star detector overview. null
measurements of photon and $\pi^0$ production in heavy ion collisions at rhic. null
measurement of source chaoticity for particle emission in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s}_{nn}}$ = 130 gev using 3-particle hbt correlations. null
non-identical particle correlation analysis as a probe of transverse flow. null
$\omega^-$ and $\overline{\omega}^+$ production in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 and 200 gev. null
$\rho(770)^0$, k$^{\star}(892)^0$ and f$_0$(980) production in au-au and pp collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
mid-rapidity $\pi^{\pm}, k^{\pm}$, and $\overline{p}$ spectra and particle ratios from star. null
soft physics in star. null
narrowing of the balance function with centrality in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. null
phenix detector overview. null
charged hadron spectra in phenix. null
two particle azimuthal correlation measurements in phenix. null
charged particle angular correlations from leading photons at rhic. null
high $p_t$ identified hadron ratios in $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev au + au collisions. null
measurement of the neutral pion cross section in proton-proton collisions at $\sqrt{s}$ = 200 gev with phenix. null
single leptons from heavy-flavor decays at rhic. null
$j/\psi \rightarrow ee$ and $j/\psi \rightarrow \mu\mu$ measurements in au au and $pp$ collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
charge fluctuations at mid-rapidity in au + au collisions in the phenix experiment at rhic. null
identified charged particle azimuthal anisotropy in phenix at rhic. null
two-particle correlations measured by phenix in au-au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
source parameters from identified hadron spectra and hbt radii for au-au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev in phenix. null
charge particle multiplicity and transverse energy measurements in au-au collisions in phenix at rhic. null
disappearance of back-to-back high-p$_t$ hadron correlations in central au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 200 gev. null
azimuthal anisotropy and correlations in the hard scattering regime at rhic. null
centrality dependence of charged particle multiplicity in au-au collisions at $\sqrt s_{nn}$ = 130 gev. null
$k^*(892)^0$ production in relativistic heavy ion collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$=130gev. null
coherent $\rho^0$ production in ultraperipheral heavy ion collisions. null
centrality dependence of high $p_t$ hadron suppression in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$=130 gev. null
leptonic observables in ultra-relativistic heavy ion collisions. null
results on identified hadrons from the phenix experiment at rhic. null
high p$_{t}$ measurements from phenix. null
elliptic flow from two- and four-particle correlations in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$=130 gev. null
azimuthal anisotropy of k$^0_s$ and $\lambda + \overline{\lambda}$ production at midrapidity from au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. null
strangeness in au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev observed with the star detector. null
strangeness production at rhic. null
results from the star experiment. null
midrapidity antiproton-to-proton ratio from au + au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$ = 130 gev. null
complexation and luminescence spectroscopic studies of europium (iii) with polymaleic acid. null
measurements of sideward flow around the balance energy. null
multiplicity distribution and spectra of negatively charged hadrons in au+au collisions at $\sqrt{s_{nn}}$=130 gev. null
