approximation algorithms for scheduling with a limited number of communications. we consider the case of a uet tree and an unlimited number of processors. we give a 2-approximation algorithm for minimizing the total number of communications, when there are no communication delays. this algorithm allows us to design a 6-approximation algorithm for the makespan minimization problem when there are unit length communication delays and the processors are interconnected by a single bus. finally, we compare our 6-approximation algorithm with other algorithms by simulations. we show that its mean performance is regular (around 1.25) and we explain, for certain cases, the performance of these algorithms by considering some parameters of the problem.
improving the effectiveness of web caching. the bandwidth demands on the (world-wide) web continue to grow at an exponential rate. it is thus becoming crucial to provide solutions improving the web latency. in that framework, the most promising low cost solution lies in the use of caches at the level of the clients, network and servers. caching effectiveness then relies upon adequate cache management so as to keep in the cache the web objects that are the most likely to be re-accessed. however, the effectiveness of a single cache remains poor as it is in general no higher than 40%. one way to further improve caching effectiveness is thus to make caches cooperate so as to increase the probability of retrieving an object at the caching level. the cache cooperation protocol must then be such that it induces a negligible load for the network and cooperating caches. this paper presents our solutions to improving the effectiveness of web caching concerning both cache management and cache cooperation. regarding cache management, we propose two novel algorithms that exploit the latest results about web usage, enabling us to undertake replacement decisions that are more accurate than the one taken by existing algorithms. from the standpoint of cooperating caches, we propose a cooperation protocol, which minimizes the associated network bandwidth, processing load, and storage consumption among caches.
effects of compressed solar radiation and weather data : sensitivity analysis of solar energy system models. null
quantitative structure property relationships (qspr) for the adsorption of organic compounds onto activated carbon cloths. comparison between multiple linear regression and neural network. quantitative structure-property relationship (qspr) for the adsorption of organic compounds onto activated carbon cloth: comparison between multiple linear regression and neural network by: brasquet, c; bourges, b; le cloirec, p environmental science &amp; technology volume: 33 issue: 23 pages: 4226-4231 published: dec 1 1999 context sensitive links close abstractclose abstract the adsorption of 55 organic compounds is carried out onto a recently discovered adsorbent, activated carbon cloth. isotherms are modeled using the freundlich classical model, and the large database generated allows qualitative assumptions about the adsorption mechanism. however, to confirm these assumptions, a quantitative structure-property relationship methodology is used to assess the correlation between an adsorbability parameter (expressed using the freundlich parameter k) and topological indices related to the compounds molecular structure (molecular connectivity indices, mci). this correlation is set up by mean of two different statistical tools, multiple linear regression (mlr) and neural network (nn). a principal component analysis is carried out to generate new and uncorrelated variables. it enables the relations between the mci to be analyzed, but the multiple linear regression assessed using the principal components (pcs) has a poor statistical quality and introduces high order pcs, too inaccurate for an explanation of the adsorption mechanism. the correlations are thus set up using the original variables (mci), and both statistical teals, multiple linear regression and neural network, are compared from a descriptive and predictive point of view. to compare the predictive ability of both methods, a test database of 10 organic compounds is used. results show the good descriptive ability of nn compared with that of mlr, with more than 68% variance explained by nn, whereas mlr allows only 44% variance explanation. however, the predictive ability of nn seems to be low, especially when the structure of the test compounds is not well described in the training database. the good descriptive ability of nn is then exploited to carry out a variable analysis using the garson weight partitioning method and to give information about the adsorption process. this study shows that fiat molecules seem to be better adsorbed onto activated carbon fibers than bulky molecules, because of an adsorption which is located between the micrographitic planes of fibers. the adsorption process occurs via an electron donor-acceptor interaction between the surface of the activated carbon fiber(donor) and the solute (acceptor). consequently, the aromatic compounds with electron-withdrawing substituents seem to be favored. furthermore, the lower the solute affinity for the aqueous media, the greater seems to be the adsorption.
the european solar radiation atlas vol.2: database and exploitation software. null
the european solar radiation atlas vol.1: fundamentals and maps. null
fibrous media plugging modelling for liquid filtration. the aim of this work is to model the plugging curve of fibrous media for depth and surface filtration. the model links the evolution of pressure drop versus the injected mass of pollutants to structural properties of the media. furthermore, thanks to the model, it is possible to predict the fibrous composition of a medium, which conforms to given filtration properties. first, a review of the typical fibrous media for engine oil filtration formed in our laboratory is proposed, and, the measured filtration properties as well as the methods used for the characterization of structural properties of the media during plugging are presented. then, an explanation of the evolution of structural properties is proposed. in the second part, the results of the structural property characterization during plugging are used to develop a model of the pressure drop evolution as a function of the injected mass of pollutants. then, correlation laws linking the model parameters to the structural properties of the medium are given and the model is used to predict the plugging curve of two typical filtering media.
about the applicability of commonly used pressure-flow models to plane single-layer filters of activated carbon fabric. the pressure drop through plane single-layer filters of activated carbon fabric was determined experimentally with air and water as working fluids, for mean flow velocities covering the laminar and turbulent regimes in the upstream flow, and under various operating conditions. observational evidence is given that common approaches consisting of linearly relating the pressure drop coefficient and the reciprocal of the particle reynolds number with constant coefficients are inappropriate to fully describe the hydrodynamic behaviour of such systems. these coefficients were found to strongly depend on the nature of the circulating fluid and on the upstream flow regime as a result mainly of the property of fabrics to deform. significant discrepancies are to be expected between their value in actual service conditions and those estimated from standard measurement procedures with the fabric at rest and in the absence of any flow, as is usually done in practice, with direct practical consequences. data analysis using the pressure-flow models of goodings (1964, textile research journal, 34(8), 713-724.) and comiti and renaud (1989, chemical engineering science, 44(7), 1539-1545.) corroborated the tentative conclusions that were reached as regards the effects of changes in the structure of fabrics with fibre deflection onto the hydrodynamic behaviour of single-layer fabric filters. (c) 2000 elsevier science ltd. all rights reserved.
combustion characterization of natural gas in a lean burn spark-ignition engine. lean burn natural gas fuelled spark-ignition engines are particularly attractive regarding environmental performance. nevertheless, few data exist concerning lean combustion in gas engines in terms of ignition delay, combustion duration and combustion rate. such data are necessary when using thermodynamic models to predict energy and environmental performance. the present study proposes a contribution to such combustion characterization as a function of spark timing, air excess and engine load. this work is based on experimental cylinder pressure measurements in an open chamber engine on the one hand, and on a one-zone thermodynamic model used as a heat release analysis tool on the other hand. results obtained, such as mass fraction burned, ignition delay and combustion duration, allow identification of the parameters used in the wiebe function, a semi-empirical law that is frequently used to describe the combustion in predictive models.
a new methodological approach of sizing and operation optimization for cogeneration by internal combustion engines. the goal of this article is to present a robust and relatively simple to apply mathematical model to determine the optimal size and operation of the main equipment of cogeneration plant with internal combustion engines. the concerned installations are the gas engines and the peak boilers. the presented model optimizes the power of the equipment to be installed, as well as their instantaneous loads. contrary to previous studies on rated parameters, this analysis takes into account continuous load variation in the range of 50% to 100% for the engines and 0% to 100% for the boilers.
thermoeconomic analysis method for cogeneration plants. in this paper, the authors present a unified comparison method for the calculations of thermodynamic efficiencies applied to combined heat and power. three new indicators have been introduced: two energetic structure indexes defined to size up the chp equipment, and a heat recovering ratio that allows to adapt the developed method to open cycles. a comparison between separated solution and prime movers has been studied by using this analysis tool. these indicators have been used to estimate the influence of technical and economical features.
organic acids emissions from natural-gas-fed engines. a natural-gas-fed spark-ignition engine, operating under lean conditions, is used for the study of the organic acids exhaust emissions. these pollutants are collected by passing a sample of exhaust gas into deionised water. the final solution is directly analysed by hplc/uv at 204 nm. only formic acid is emitted in detectable concentration under the experimental conditions used. its concentration decreases with the three engine operating parameters studied. spark advance, volumetric efficiency and fuel/air equivalence ratio. exhaust formic acid concentration is also linked with exhaust oxygen concentration and exhaust temperature. a comparison with other engines (si engines fed with gasoline and compression ignition engines) from bibliographic data proves that natural-gas-fed engines emit less organic acids than the other two types of engines. (c) 2000 elsevier science ltd. all rights reserved.
proceedings of the 1st international symposium on non-photorealistic animation and rendering. null
selective biosorption of thorium ions by an immobilized mycobacterial biomass. null
selective biosorption of lanthanide (la, eu) ions by mycobacterium smegmatis. the ability of mycobacterium smegmatis to adsorb lanthanide (lanthanum (la), europium (eu)) cations from aqueous solutions was studied. adsorption isotherms of lanthanum ions showed that the adsorption capacity was higher for wet biomass than for dry biomasses (37 degrees c and 70 degrees c). the biosorption capacity on cells dried at 70 degrees c is reduced. potentiometric titrations revealed the existence of at least two types of acidic functions in the cell wall, with strong and weak affinity. the weak acidic groups became inaccessible at a drying temperature of 70 degrees c. lanthanum and europium adsorption by mycobacterium smegmatis obeyed the freundlich and langmuir isotherm relations. eu3+ was preferentially adsorbed with respect to the lanthanum cations. the extended langmuir equation enabled a preliminary theoretical approach of the multicomponent adsorption phenomenon.
m+/h+ ion exchange behavior of the phosphoantimonic acids hnsbnp2o3n+5 center dot xh(2)o (n = 1,3) for m = cs and other alkali metal ions. the sorptions of cesium and of other alkali metal ions have been studied by batch techniques; the data are well fitted using the langmuir equation. the values of the various thermodynamic parameters associated to the ion exchange are reported (free energies, enthalpies, entropies, distribution coefficients kd, selectivity coefficients kc) and discussed; the ion selectivity, at infinite exchange on hsbp2o8 (called h-1) and on h3sb3p2o14 (called h-3) varies according to the sequence cs &gt; rb &gt; k &gt; na. the very negative values of delta g(cs/h)degrees, and delta g(rb/h)degrees are indicative of a preferential adsorption of cs+ and rb+ higher in h-3 than in h, by about one order of magnitude at low concentration level. the selectivity coefficients for cs+, rb+ on h-1 vary linearly with the fractional exchange (x) over bar(m) in solid (kielland plot) suggesting a unique site of exchange. the kielland plot for h-3 can be described in terms of a multisite ion exchange model (two sites) in agreement with the number of sites in the crystalline structure of k-3 (homologous compound). radiotracers have been used to estimate the parameters kd at low concentration levels. the results are discussed on the basis of the thermodynamic data together with the structures. (c) 1998 elsevier science b.v. all rights reserved.
selective biosorption of lanthanide (la, eu, yb) ions by pseudomonas aeruginosa. the ability of pseudomonas aeruginosa to adsorb selectively la3+, eu3+, and yb3+ from aqueous solution was investigated. the lanthanide biosorption equilibrium obeyed the brunauer-emmett-teller isotherm model, indicating multilayer adsorption. determined levels of maximum adsorption capacities were 397 mu mol/g far lanthanum, 290 mu mol/g for europium and 326 mu mol/g for ytterbium (+/-10%). the results indicated that there were about 100 preferential sites for lanthanum per g of dry biomass. experiments with mixed-cation solutions showed that the sequence of preferential biosorption was eu3+ = yb3+ &gt; la3+. biomasses dried at 37 and 70 degrees c showed the same selective behavior as wet biomass. inert microbial biomass dried at 37 degrees c appeared to be the most efficient farm for experimental use. the uptake of lanthanide by p. aeruginosa cells was not affected by the presence of sodium, potassium, calcium, chloride, sulfate and nitrate ions. aluminum was a strong inhibitor of lanthanide ions biosorption. 87% of the total al3+ was removed from the 3 mm solution, whereas only 8%, 20% and 3% of the total la3+, eu3+, and yb3+, respectively, were sorbed from 3 mm solutions. the results suggested that cells of pseudomonas aeruginosa may find promising applications for removal and separation of lanthanide ions from aqueous effluents.
selective biosorption of lanthanide (la, eu, yb) ions by an immobilized bacterial biomass. the removal of metallic ions la3+, eu3+ and yb3+ from aqueous solution by immobilized biomass of pseudomonas aeruginosa was investigated in batch and column reactors. batch studies consisted in kinetic measurements for lanthanum adsorption by biomass-chitosan beads. results did not show a significant effect of the presence of bacteria into chitosan matrix on the lanthanum uptake. then, laboratory scale fixed-bed column experiments were carried out using biomass-entrapped polyacrylamide gel beads, which contained approximately 48% (dry weight basis) of biomass. the lanthanum sorption was dependent on the superficial liquid velocity based on empty column in the range 0.76-2.29 m.h(-1). the removal of lanthan decations (2 mm) at ph 5.0 and 0.76 m/h was 198 mu mol.g(-1) (dry biomass) for lanthanum, 167 mu mol.g(-1) for europium and 192 mu mol.g(-1) for ytterbium (+/-10%). these results are of the order of 1.7-2 times lower than those observed in batch systems with free bacterial cells. column experiments with mixed-cation solutions showed the following sequence of preferential biosorption: eu3+ &gt; yb3+ &gt; la3+.
characterization of lanthanide ions binding sites in the cell wall of pseudomonas aeruginosa. earlier studies have shown that pseudomonas aeruginosa can adsorb selectively la3+, eu3+, and yb3+ from aqueous solution. these bacterial cells may find promising applications for removal and separation of lanthanide ions from contaminated effluents. in this work, potentiometric titrations and time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy were used to determine the binding sites of the biomass and, consequently, to elucidate the underlying mechanisms involved in the biosorption of lanthanide ions. around 90 +/- 5% of the adsorbed lanthanum was easily desorbed with an edta 0.1 m solution. in most instances, lanthanides seemed to concentrate extracellularly. the diversity of potential metal-binding groups was revealed by potentiometric titrations of the biomass. the amount of strong and weaker acidic functional groups in the wet biomass was estimated at 0.24 +/- 0.04 acid 0.86 +/- 0.02 mequiv/g, respectively. time-resolved laser-induced fluorescence spectroscopy on europium-loaded p. aeruginosa biomass suggests that europium binding occurs mostly through carboxyl and phosphate groups.
factors influencing the biosorption of gadolinium by micro-organisms and its mobilisation from sand. the present work was devoted to the study of the biosorption capacities of various microbial species (bacillus subtilis, pseudomonas aeruginosa, ralstonia metallidurans ch34 previously alcaligenes eutrophus ch34, mycobacterium smegmatis, saccharomyces cerevisiae) for ions of the lanthanide gadolinium (gd3+). the uptake by sand of this element was also measured. saturation curves and scatchard models were established for all biosorbants used in this work. the results enabled us to determine the binding affinities and the maximum capacities for biosorption of gd3+, which ranged from 350 micromol g(-1) for b. subtilis to 5.1 micromol g(-1) for s. cerevisiae. this study demonstrated the usefulness of optimisation of experimental conditions in biosorption investigations. experimental results showed that biosorption could be influenced by the growth stage and by the composition of the growth medium of microbial cells. finally, particular attention was given to the transfer of gadolinium ions from a loaded sand to a bacterial suspension.
removal of metal ions from aqueous solution on low cost natural polysaccharides - sorption mechanism approach. the fixation of cu2+, ni2+ and pb2+ on sugar beer pulp, a low-cost material, has been studied. after a simple treatment of the sorbent, the results have shown that the mode of fixation depends on the metal. the key part of the mode of fixation is attributed to ion exchange, while a non-negligible part of adsorption could sometimes occur. as far as lead ions are concerned, 25% of their fixation capacities are due to adsorption mechanism at ph 4. the overall uptake is at a maximum at ph 6 and gives up to 60 mg g(-1) for pb2+, 30 mg g(-1) for cu2+ and 12 mg g(-1) for ni2+, which seems to be removed exclusively by ion exchange. these capacities increase with the ph. diffusion models have been tested on samples of different particle size, and they have suggested a transfer to the intraparticular sites. (c) 2000 elsevier science b.v. all rights reserved.
excentric labeling: dynamic neighborhood labeling for data visualization. the widespread use of information visualization is hampered by the lack of effective labeling techniques. an informal taxonomy of labeling methods is proposed. we then describe excentric labeling, a new dynamic technique to label a neighborhood of objects located around the cursor. this technique does not intrude into the existing interaction, it is not computationally intensive, and was easily applied to several visualization applications. a pilot study with eight subjects indicates a strong speed benefit over a zoom interface for tasks that involve the exploration of large numbers of objects. observations and comments from users are presented.
compus: visualization and analysis of structured documents for understanding social life in the 16th century. this article describes the compus visualization system that assists in the exploration and analysis of structured document corpora encoded in xml. compus has been developed for and applied to a corpus of 100 french manuscript letters of the 16th century, transcribed and encoded for scholarly analysis using the recommendations of the text encoding initiative. by providing a synoptic visualization of a corpus and allowing for dynamic queries and structural transformations, compus assists researchers in finding regularities or discrepancies, leading to a higher level analysis of historic source. compus can be used with other richly encoded text corpora as well.
implementing constraint relaxation over finite domains using atms. null
best-first search for property maintenance in reactive constraints systems. null
a best first approach for solving over-constrained dynamic problems. null
dynamic domain splitting for numeric csp. null
about avoidable computations in interval methods. null
l'algorithme path-repair. null
maintaining arc-consistency within dynamic backtracking. null
on exponential stabilizability for boundary control systems in hilbert spaces. the paper is concerned with infinite-dimensional boundary control systems in hilbert spaces. in order to handle controllability and stabilizability, the first part is devoted to transform equations of the initial boundary control system. some necessary and sufficient conditions for exact controllability are proposed. in this case, the extended controllability gramian is uniformly positive definite and bounded. this operator allows the authors to define a feedback control law which stabilizes exponentially the closed-loop system with an arbitrary decay rate. this feedback is defined from the inverse of the controllability gramian.
on exponential stabilizability with arbitrary decay rate for linear systems in hilbert spaces. in this paper, we deal with linear infinite dimensional systems in hilbert spaces. in the beginning, systems are continuous. in the second part, we use a sampling to transform our first system in a discrete-time system. for these systems, exact controllability implies that the extended controllability gramian is uniformly positive definite. this operator allows us to define a feedback control law which stabilizes exponentially the closed-loop system. in the first case, we want to push eigenvalues in the negative part of the complex plane and to have an arbitrary decay rate. in the discrete-time system, we want to push eigenvalues of the closed loop system in the unit ball that is to say to minimize the norm of the closed loop operator. results of continuous-time system are applied to a system described by a wave equation.
on exact controllability and complete stabilizability for linear systems in hilbert spaces. a criterion of exact controllabilty using the resolvent of the state space operator is given for linear control system in hilbert space . only surjectivity of the semi-group operators is assumed. this condition is necessary for exact controllability, so the criterion is quite general. relations between exact controllability and complete stabilizability are specified.
on the structure at infinity of linear delay systems with application to the disturbance decoupling problem. the disturbance decoupling problem is studied for linear delay systems. the structural approach is used to design a decoupling precompensator. the realization of the given precompensator by static state feedback is studied. using various structural and geometric tools, a detailed description of the feedback is given, in particular, derivative of the delayed disturbance can be needed in the realization of the precompensator.
working modes with a declarative modeler. this paper presents the point of view of a designer about declarative modelers. first, we propose a model of this point of view. our approach is based on the work we have done to develop some of our declarative modelers. it takes into account the main functions used by a designer in these modelers. then, we explain also the scene-building process and we present working processes that can be used with those modelers. finally, we discuss the world-wide-web compliancy of declarative modelers.
tracing prolog programs by source instrumentation is efficient enough. null
kinematic model of a multi-beam structure undergoing large elastic displacement and rotations. part two: kinematic model of an open chain. null
kinematic model of a multi-beam structure undergoing large elastic displacement and rotations. part one: model of an isolated beam. null
an efficient calculation of flexible manipulator inverse dynamics. null
symbolic modelling of a flexible manipulator via assembling of its generalized newton-euler model. null
generalisation of newton-euler model for flexible manipulators. null
automatic segmentation of portal vein in ct-scans of the liver. null
liver segmentation in contrast enhanced helical ct-scans. null
tdc determination in ic engines based on the thermodynamic analysis of the temperature-entropy diagram. a thermodynamic methodology of tdc determination in ic engines based on a motoring pressure-time diagram is presented. this method consists in entropy calculation and temperature- entropy diagram analysis. when the tdc position is well calibrated, compression and expansion strokes under motoring conditions are symmetrical with respect to the peak temperature in the (t,s) diagram. moreover, in case of error on the tdc position, a loop appears which has no thermodynamic significance. hence an easy methodology has been conceived to obtain the actual position of tdc. this methodology is applied to motoring measurements in order to present its performance, which are compared to usual methods.
a new method to determine the start and end of combustion in an internal combustion engine using entropy changes. simulation studies indicated that the start and end of combustion in an internal combustion engine could be determined from the points of minimum and maximum entropy in the cycle. this method was further used to predict the beginning and end of the combustion process from experimentally obtained pressure crank angle data from a natural gas operated, single cylinder, spark ignition engine. the end of combustion always matched well with the point of maximum entropy. the start of combustion could be determined easily from the rate of change of entropy, which showed a sharp change at ignition. results closely agreed with those obtained from a heat release analysis.
complexation of actinide cations by carboxylated calix[4]arenes. null
complexation of eu(iii) onto polymaleic acid either free in solution or sorbed onto alumina. null
strategic research directions in object oriented programming. null
a new lower bound for the open-shop problem. null
improving branch-and-bound algorithms for open-shop problems. null
combining ai/or techniques for solving open-shop problems. null
loading aircrafts for military operations. null
building university timetables using constraint logic programming. null
classical and new heuristics for the open-shop problem, a computational evaluation. null
using intelligent backtracking to improve branch and bound methods: an application to open-shop problems. null
classical and new heuristics for the open-shop problem. null
using intelligent backtracking to improve branch-and-bound methods. null
exponential probability of defectives in sampling. null
an improvement of the weighted variance x control chart. null
extension of the scaled weighted variance method to the ewma-x control chart. null
simple control charts for data having a symmetrical leptokurtic distribution. null
an ewma control chart for monitoring the logarithm of the process sample variance. null
an ewma control chart for monitoring the process sample median. null
a new ewma control chart for monitoring the process standard deviation. null
toward the use of statistical analysis in positional tolerancing. null
an optimized algorithms for computing wilcoxon's tn+ statistics when n is small. null
optimized algorithms for computing wilcoxon's tn, wilcoxon's wm,n and ansari-bradley's am,n statistics when m and n are small. null
evaluation of non normal process capability indices using burr's distributions. null
approximation of the normal sample median distribution using symmetrical johnson su distributions: application to quality control. null
single acceptance sampling by attributes with an increasing proportion of defective items. null
x control chart for skewed populations using a scaled weighted variance method. null
the path-repair algorithm. in this paper, we introduce a new solving algorithm for constraint satisfaction problems: the path-repair algorithm. the two main points of that algorithm are: it makes use of a repair algorithm (local search) as a basis and it works on a partial instantiation in order to be able to use filtering techniques. different versions are presented and first experiments with both systematic and non systematic versions show promising results.
constraint relaxation for dynamic problems. constraint relaxation for dynamic problems.
exclusive electroproduction and off-diagonal parton distributions. off-diagonal parton distributions occur in several hard exclusive reactions. they extend the study of hadron structure beyond what can be learned from ordinary distributions and have a particularly rich spin structure. the hard scattering subprocesses in electroproduction of mesons and of real photons satisfy helicity selection rules, which provide powerful tools to test leading-twist dominance at a given value of the hard scale.
dynamical fragment production in central collisions xe(50 a.mev)+sn. for central collisions xe(50 a.mev)+sn we compared experimental data from the indra detector with qmd simulations. theory as well as experiment show a clear binary character of the fragment emission even for very central collisions. from the time evolution of the reaction (qmd simulation) we could built up a scenario for the dynamical emission of fragments.
polarisation in deeply virtual meson production. we discuss two aspects of polarisation in hard exclusive meson production: the leading-twist selection rule for the meson helicity, and the different partial waves of a (pi pi)-pair which may or may not be due to the decay of a rho.
vacuum structure in supersymmetric yang-mills theories with any gauge group. we consider the pure supersymmetric yang--mills theories placed on a small 3-dimensional spatial torus with higher orthogonal and exceptional gauge groups. the problem of constructing the quantum vacuum states is reduced to a pure mathematical problem of classifying the flat connections on 3-torus. the latter problem is equivalent to the problem of classification of commuting triples of elements in a connected simply connected compact lie group which is solved in this paper. in particular, we show that for higher orthogonal so(n), n &gt; 6, and for all exceptional groups the moduli space of flat connections involves several distinct connected components. the total number of vacuumstates is given in all cases by the dual coxeter number of the group which agrees with the result obtained earlier with the instanton technique.
enhanced strange particle yields - signal of a phase of massless particles ?. the yields of strange particles are calculated with the urqmd model for p,pb(158 agev)pb collisions and compared to experimental data. the yields are enhanced in central collisions if compared to proton induced or peripheral pb+pb collisions. the enhancement is due to secondary interactions. nevertheless, only a reduction of the quark masses or equivalently an increase of the string tension provides an adequate description of the large observed enhancement factors (wa97 and na49). furthermore, the yields of unstable strange resonances as the lambda_star(1520) resonance or the phi meson are considerably affected by hadronic rescattering of the decay products.
role of the experimental filter in obtaining the arrhenius plot in multifragmentation reactions. recently it has been argued that the linear relation between the transverse energy and the apparent probability to emit a fragment proves that the total system is in thermal equilibrium. it is shown, for a specific reaction xe+sn at 50 a.mev, that the same behavior is obtained in the context of quantum molecular dynamical without invoking the idea of equilibrium. the linear dependance is shown to be a detector effect.
relativistic transport theory for systems containing bound states. using a lagrangian which contains quarks as elementary degrees of freedom and mesons as bound states, a transport formalism is developed, which allows for a dynamical transition from a quark plasma to a state, where quarks are bound into hadrons. simultaneous transport equations for both particle species are derived in a systematic and consistent fashion. for the mesons a formalism is used which introduces off-shell corrections to the off-diagonal green functions. it is shown that these off-shell corrections lead to the appearance of elastic quark scattering processes in the collision integral. the interference of the processes $q\bar q\to\pi$ and $q\bar q\to\pi\to q\bar q$ leads to a modification of the $s$-channel amplitude of quark-antiquark scattering.
semihard interactions in nuclear collisions based on a unified approach to high energy scattering. our ultimate goal is the construction of a model for interactions of two nuclei in the energy range between several tens of gev up to several tev per nucleon in the centre-of-mass system. such nuclear collisions are very complex, being composed of many components, and therefore some strategy is needed to construct a reliable model. the central point of our approach is the hypothesis, that the behavior of high energy interactions is universal (universality hypothesis). so, for example, the hadronization of partons in nuclear interactions follows the same rules as the one in electron-positron annihilation; the radiation of off-shell partons in nuclear collisions is based on the same principles as the one in deep inelastic scattering. we construct a model for nuclear interactions in a modular fashion. the individual modules, based on the universality hypothesis, are identified as building blocks for more elementary interactions (like e^+ e^-, lepton-proton), and can therefore be studied in a much simpler context. with these building blocks under control, we can provide a quite reliable model for nucleus-nucleus scattering, providing in particular very useful tests for the complicated numerical procedures using monte carlo techniques.
strangeness production incorporating chiral symmetry. chiral symmetry is known to be decisive for an understanding of the low energy sector of strong interactions. it is thus important for a model of relativistic heavy ion collisions to incorporate the dynamical breaking and restoration of chiral symmetry. thus we study an expansion scenario for a quark-meson plasma using the nambu--jona-lasinio (njl) model in its three flavor version. the equations of motion for light and strange quarks as well as for pions, kaons and etas are solved using a qmd type algorithm, which is based on a parametrization of the wigner function. the scattering processes incorporated into this calculation are of the types qq &lt;--&gt; qq, q\bar q &lt;--&gt; q\bar q, q\bar q &lt;--&gt; mm and m &lt;--&gt; q\bar q.
virial corrections to simulations of heavy ion reactions. within qmd simulations we demonstrate the effect of virial corrections on heavy ion reactions. unlike in standard codes, the binary collisions are treated as non-local so that the contribution of the collision flux to the reaction dynamics is covered. a comparison with standard qmd simulations shows that the virial corrections lead to a broader proton distribution bringing theoretical spectra closer towards experimental values. complementary buu simulations reveal that the non-locality enhances the collision rate in the early stage of the reaction. it suggests that the broader distribution appears due to an enhanced pre-equilibrium emission of particles.
aspects of chiral symmetry. we give a pedagogical review of implications of chiral symmetry in qcd. first, we briefly discuss classical textbook subjects such as the axial anomaly, spontaneous breaking of the flavor-nonsinglet chiral symmetry, formation of light pseudo-goldstone particles, and their effective interactions. then we proceed to other issues. we explain in some detail a recent discovery how to circumvent the nielsen--ninomiya's theorem and implement chirally symmetric fermions on the lattice. we touch upon such classical issues as the vafa-witten's theorem and 't hooft's anomaly matching conditions. we derive a set of exact theorems concerning the dynamics of the theory in a finite euclidean volume and the behavior of the dirac spectral density. finally, we discuss an imaginary world with a nonzero value of the vacuum angle theta.
alice, the heavy ion experiment at lhc. alice, a large ion collider experiment, is the future large hadron collider (lhc) experiment at cern devoted to the physics of quantum chromo-thermo-dynamics. relativistic heavy-ion collisions (hic) at lhc aim at the production of a plasma of quarks and gluons (qgp). this plasma is expected to be much hotter, bigger and longer than in previous hic experiments at lower center-of-mass energies. in the alice experiment, the ephemeral qgp created during the first stages of the hic will be studied by the concomitant detection of most of the probes of high temperature strongly interacting matter.
modeling railway control systems using graph grammars: a case study. in this report, we develop a railway control system. we are mainly concerned with the software architecture of the control system and its dynamic evolution ; we do not discuss here the implementation details of the components forming the control system. the software architecture is characterized by a hierarchy of controllers whose leaves are local controllers connected in a network that mimics the underlying railway topology. using a particular graph grammar, we formally define a class of software architectures for the railway control system ensuring several desirable properties by construction. the dynamic evolution of the architecture is modelled by a set of coordination rules which define graph transformations. particular emphasis is placed on the verification of these rules with respect to desirable properties encoded in the grammars. using the graph grammar and the coordination rules as a formal specification of the railway control system, we derive an implementation in concoord, an environment for concurrent coordinated programming whose coordination language permits us to define the software architecture of the control system and its dynamic evolution abstracting away from the implementation details of its components.
a software toolbox to carry-out virtual experiments on human motion. we present a simulation toolbox to carry-out virtual experiments on human motion. 3d visualization, automatic code generation and generic control design patterns bring dynamic simulation tools into the hands of biomechanicians and doctors.
meson production in the $\vecp + d \to ^3\rm he + x$ reaction at spes 3 at e$_\rm inc$= 1450 mev. selected results of the meson production study in the vect(p)+d --&gt; 3he+x reaction realized with the spes 3 spectrometer at saturne will be presented and related to a semiphenomenological three nucleon model.
non-cooled near infrared spectroscopy. we investigate the use of non-cryogenic instrumentation for near-infrared spectroscopy.
nuclear scattering at very high energies. we discuss the current understanding of nuclear scattering at very high energies. we point out several serious inconsistencies in nowadays models, which provide big problems for any interpretation of data at high energy nuclear collisions. we outline how to develop a fully self-consistent formalism, which in addition uses all the knowledge available from studying electron-positron annihilation and deep inelastic scattering, providing a solid basis for further developments concerning secondary interactions.
tools for rhic: review of models. we discuss the present status of microscopic models for rhic, with an emphasis on models being realized via the monte carlo technique. this review is to a large extent based on the oscar3 workshop, where general concepts and new trends in this field have been discussed.
event by event measurement of  of photons in s + au collisions at 200 a gev. null
$\delta^{++}$ production in 158 a gev $^{208}$pb+$^{208}$pb interactions at the cern sps. null
collective flow and hbt in pb+pb collisions at the cern-sps. null
elliptic emission of $k^+$ in 158a gev pb+pb collisions. null
elliptic emission of k$^+$ and $\pi^+$ in 158a.gev pb+pb collisions. null
central pb+pb collisions at 158 a gev/c studied by $\pi^-\pi^-$ interferometry. null
exclusive production of pion pairs in $\gamma\gamma$ collisions at large q$^2$. null
energy loss and x(2) scaling breakdown in j / psi nuclear production. null
the emitting source: can it be determined by the hbt correlation function in ultrarelativistic heavy ion collisions?. null
multiplicity of different hadrons in e+ e- , p p, and a a collisions. null
multiplicity distributions and charged-neutral fluctuations. null
the production of k$^+$ mesons in heavy ion reactions. null
cluster and alpha radioactivities and asymmetric fission. null
fission through quasi-molecular shapes and fragmentation. null
deformation valleys through quasi-molecular and toroidal shapes. null
fusion and alpha emission within a liquid drop model and heaviest element formation and decay. null
l-dependent potential barriers and superdeformed states. null
first-order dissolution rate law and the role of surface layers in glass performance assessment. null
suppression of charmonia in nuclear matter. null
performance of a gas avalanche pixel detector of 50 mu m pitch. null
on the role of energy conservation in high-energy nuclear scattering. we argue that the most commonly used models for nuclear scattering at ultra-relativistic energies do not treat energy conservation in a consistent fashion. demanding theoretical consistency as a minimal requirement for a realistic model, we provide a solution for the above-mentioned problem, the so-called 'parton-based gribov-regge theory'. in order to keep a clean picture, we do not consider secondary interactions. we provide a very transparent extrapolation of the physics of more elementary interactions towards nucleus-nucleus scattering, without considering any nuclear effects due to final state interactions. in this sense we consider our model a realistic and consistent approach to describe the initial stage of nuclear collisions.
dynamical effects on the quasiprojectile temperature in the ar+al reaction. null
coulomb interaction of pions in central pb+pb collisions at 158 agev. null
simulated annealing clusterization algorithm for studying the multifragmentation. null
multiboson effects in multiparticle production. null
anti-deuteron and kaon production in pb+pb collisions. null
coalescence, interferometry and flow. null
three-pion interferometry results from central pb+pb collisions at 158a gev/c. null
observation of direct photons in central 158a gev $^{208}$pb+$^{208}$pb collisions. null
recent results from the wa98 experiment. null
search for disoriented chiral condensates in 158.a gev pb+pb collisions. null
an intelligent instrument for tracking and adaptive filtering of oscillatory signals using hebbian learning rules. null
external modulation: an emerging technology in hybrid fibre coaxial networks. null
isomerism and novel magnetic order in mn$_{13}$ cluster. null
magnetic ordering and granularity effects in la$_{1-x}$ba$_x$mno$_3$. null
onset of binary processes: a new observable for the in-medium nn cross section. null
raman scattering characterization of si(100) implanted with mega-electron-volt sb. null
a new approach to nuclear collisions at rhic energies. null
contribution of evanescent waves to the far field: the atomic point of view. null
quantum-mechanical description of ionization, capture, and excitation in proton collisions with atomic oxygen. null
charmonium cross section from p-a production. null
fusion and alpha emission within a liquid drop model and superheavy element formation and decay. null
energy conservation in modeling ultrarelativistic heavy ion collisions. null
energy sharing in ultrarelativistic nuclear collisions. null
conceptual problems in simulations of nucleus-nucleus collisions. null
determination of radium-226 in aqueous solutions by alpha spectrometry. null
presentation on the recent results in high energy heavy ion physics and on the problem on the quark-gluon plasma formation. null
alice off-line organization. null
photon physics at rhic. null
alpha emissions as an asymmetric fission and superheavy element decay. null
fusion, fission and alpha emission within a liquid drop model and quasi-molecular shapes. null
study of the resistive plate chambers for the alice dimuon arm. the trigger system for the alice dimuon arm will be based on resistive plate chambers. an rpc prototype, with electrodes made of low resistivity bakelite (rho ~ 3.10^9 ? cm) has been tested both at the sps and at the gif. the results for operation in streamer mode are presented here.
influence of temperature and humidity on bakelite resistivity. the use of phenolic or melaminic bakelite as rpc electrodes is widespread. the electrode resistivity is an important parameter for the rpc performance. as recent studies have pointed out, the bakelite resistivity changes with temperature and is influenced by humidity. in order to gain a quantitative understanding on the influence of temperature and humidity on rpc electrodes, we assembled an apparatus to measure resistivity in well-controlled conditions. a detailed description of the experimental set-up as well as the first resistivity measurements for various laminates in different environmental conditions are presented.
centrality dependence of neutral pion production in 158 a gev $^{208}pb +^{208}pb$ collisions. the production of neutral pions in 158agev pb+pb collisions has been studied in the wa98 experiment at the cern sps. transverse momentum spectra are studied for the range 0.3 gev/c mt-m0 4.0 gev/c. the results for central collisions are compared to various models. the centrality dependence of the neutral pion spectral shape and yield is investigated. an invariance of the spectral shape and a simple scaling of the yield with the number of participating nucleons is observed for centralities with greater than about 30 participating nucleons which is most naturally explained by assuming an equilibrated system.
a facility for measurements of nuclear cross sections for fast neutron cancer therapy. null
two-neutron correlations at small relative momenta in $^{40}$ar + $^{197}$au collisions at 60 mev/nucleon. null
subthreshold pion dynamics as a source for hard photons beyond proton-neutron bremsstrahlung in heavy in heavy-ion collisions. null
two-photon correlations: from young experiments to heavy-ion collision dynamics. null
high transverse momentum proton emission in ar+ta collisions at 94 mev per nucleon. null
directed collective flow and azimuthal distributions in $^{36}$ar+$^{27}$al collisions from 55 to 95 mev per nucleon. null
photon production in heavy-ion collisions close to the pion threshold. null
two-neutron interferometry measurements. null
properties of very hot nuclei formed in $^{64}$zn + $^{nat}$ti collisions at intermediate energies. null
dynamical analysis of dissipative collisions between ar and ag nuclei in the fermi domain. null
hard photons and neutral pions as probes of hot and dense nuclear matter. null
production tests of microstrip detector and electronic frontend modules for the star and alice trackers. null
tab bonded ssd module for the star and alice trackers. null
emission time scale of light particles in the system xe+sn at 50 a.mev - a probe for dynamical emission ?. null
topology analysis for the identification of energetic photons in a segmented electromagnetic calorimeter. null
test of spatial resolution of micromegas detectors. null
detection of charged pions and protons in the segmented electromagnetic calorimeter taps. null
new method for the discrimination of single-source events in heavy-ion collisions. this paper introduces a new method for the selection of central single-source events, based on classical multivariate techniques. the resulting discriminating variable is shown to be valid for different hypotheses on the nuclear source deexcitation mechanism. it enables the selection of events which are representative of the whole set of single-source events. application to the ni+ni at 32a mev system measured with the indra multidetector has allowed the determination of the fusion probability as a function of the impact parameter and the evaluation of the corresponding cross section.
study of resistive plate chambers for the alice dimuon spectrometer. null
first results for two-nucleon interferonmetry experiment, e286, at ganil. null
measurement of double differential cross sections for light charged particles production in neutron induced reactions at 62.7 mev on lead target. null
a low-resistivity rpc for the alice dimuon arm. in view of alice, the dedicated heavy-ion experiment at lhc, a resistive plate chamber (rpc) with electrodes made of low-resistivity bakelite ( rho approximately=3.5*10/sup 9/ omega cm) has been tested at the cern sps both in streamer and in avalanche mode. the chamber has shown a stable behaviour and excellent rate capability: its efficiency is better than 95% for local particle fluxes of about 1 and 10 khz/cm/sup 2/ for operation in streamer and in avalanche mode, respectively. the cluster size and the time resolution have also been measured for both modes of operation. (22 refs).
response of a resistive plate chamber to particles leaking laterally from a thick absorber. null
alpha emission and spontaneous fission through quasi-molecular shapes. null
macroscopic-microscopic energy of rotating nuclei in the fusion-like deformation valley. null
two-nucleon correlations at small relative velocities in heavy ion collisions. null
two kaon correlations from pb + pb collisions at 160 a gev from na44. null
deuteron and triton production in pb + pb collisions at 158 a gev. null
two-particle correlations in 158a gev collisions. null
first results from two-nucleon interferometry experiment, e286, at ganil. null
hadronization and strangeness production in a chirally symmetric nonequilibrium model. null
the alice dimuon trigger: overview and electronics prototypes. alice is the lhc experiment (2005) dedicated to the study of heavy ion collisions. amongst the alice sub-detectors, the muon spectrometer will investigate the dimuon production from heavy resonance (j/psi, gamma) decays, which is believed to be a promising signature of the qgp (quark gluon plasma) formation. for maximum efficiency of the spectrometer, a dedicated dimuon trigger is presently built. the detector partis itself based on rpcs operated in streamer mode and is the topic of another contribution to this conference. this paper gives the principle and the simulated performances of the trigger and is also focussed on the description of the electronics prototypes and future developments. the rpcs are read-out by x and y orthogonal strips: the front-end chips are presently developed. the signals are sent to the trigger electronics which basically performs a pt cut on the tracks to reduce the background. a prototype of fast (decision time 200 ns) programmable electronics working in a pipelined mode at 40 mhz has been built and tested. this prototype handles simultaneously 160 digital information from the strips. the tests of the trigger card have required the construction of a pattern generator (160 bits at 40 mhz).
the trigger of the alice dimuon arm: architecture and detectors. the trigger system of the alice dimuon arm is based on resistive plate chambers (rpc). besides a short description of the trigger system, the test results of an rpc prototype with electrodes made of low resistivity bakelite (~3.109cm) are presented. rate capability, time resolution and cluster size have been measured for the rpc operated both in streamer and in avalanche mode. although the rate capability is obviously higher in avalanche mode (few khz/cm2), remarkable results have been achieved even in streamer mode (several hundreds of hz/cm2).
a unified treatment of high-energy interactions. null
apparent temperatures in hot quasi-projectiles and the caloric curve. null
complexation of uranium (vi) with humic acid at low metal ion concentrations by indirect speciation methods. null
beyond mean field confrontation of different models with high transverse momentum proton spectra. null
geochemical assessment of actinide isolation in a german salt repository environment. null
uranium removal onto chitosan : competition with organics substances. organic materials and especially humic substances are often present in natural waters. the influence of organic compounds on uranium removal onto chitosan is studied. the ph of the media is fixed at 6. in operating conditions, uranium major species present in solution are : (uo2)(3)(oh)(5)(+) and (uo2)(4)(oh)(7)(+). capacity of fixation is found to be 450 mg g(-1), considering precipitation phenomena. experimental results show that chitosan offers a selective adsorption depending on the different organics used: the adsorption capacity is maximum with benzaldehyde, average with humic acids, limited with phenol and insignificant with benzoic acid. phenol does not affect the fixation capacity of uranium significantly whereas benzoic add and benzaldehyde have an average effect upon it and humic acids decrease it to 200 mg g(-1) and less as the concentration of the acid increases.
gas avalanche pixel detector with amorphous silicon carbide overcoating. null
performance of micrograp gas chambers fabricated with selected anode metals. null
m+/h+ ion exchange behavior of the phosphoantimonic acids hnsbnp2o3n+5. xh20 (n=1,3) for m=cs and other alkali metal ions. null
evidence for dynamical proton emission in peripheral xe + sn collisions at 50 mev/u. relative angle correlation functions for mid-rapidity protons built up from 50 mev/u xe+sn data recorded by the indra multidetector exhibit the characteristics of a non-equilibrated emission: they show an energy dependent anisotropy which cannot be accounted for by standard evaporation processes; a possible explanation lies in the dynamical origin of these protons as suggested by a landau-vlasov simulation.
selective actinide solvent extraction used in conjunction with liquid scintillation counting. null
recent results from the cern lead beam experiments : how close have we come to the quark-gluon-plasma ?. in a pragmatic view of media communication, we present a new method for studying cognitions during reception (labeled ecer method) to go beyond some theoretical and methodological limitations of dual-process theories of attitude formation and change. this implementation of real-time process-tracking operationalizes cognitive elaboration and cues that set processing in motion. it enables picking up viewers' cognitive responses during exposure to the message and analysing them with a cognitivo-discursive analysis (tropes software). in a first application, the ecer method is integrated into an experiment on the role of the viewer's degree of involvement in cognitive processing. the results show that the more the viewers are involved, the more they engage in cognitive elaboration and the more they develop cognitive strategies of discourse that express a  real world . inconsistent with current models, we show that involvement does not result in processing one type of cues (peripheral or central) more than another.
the dywan model and the description of transport phenomena in nuclei. title: the influence of advertising without message recall: the implicit effects of brand mere exposure ; abstract: the experiment reproduces the advertising influence conditions when the consumers, at the time to buy, do not remember the messages seen very quickly, several days before. by mobilizing the concepts of implicit attitude and implicit memory, this research studies the implicit effects of mere exposure of new brand, seven days later, when the subjects forgot to have been beforehand exposed. when the subjects think that they see the brand for the first time, the mere exposure makes positive the initially moderate evaluations. the positive and negative initially attitudes become more accessible. if one says to the subjects that they already saw the brand during advertising messages, these effects disappear. the discussion explain that the model of the misattribution of the perceptive fluidity cannot explain to him only the results. those underline that the brand negative evaluations would be implicitly memorized.
fission, cluster emission and hyperdeformation at high angular momentum in the fusion-like deformation valley. the multimedia information systems, in the context of a generalized communication, have to become an effective and relevant tool in the service of the social world. a first modelling of their conception as their realization looked in the daytime to the method of territorial intelligence catalyse. the hypothesis founder of this research is that it is possible to translate concretely the contribution of the sciences of information and communication in the process of methodological and technological transfer necessary for the development of catalyse observatories, by combining them in theories stemming from the other disciplines (didactics, cognitive psychology, sociology, geography...). from the statement of a situation where sic seem practically absent in methods of territorial intelligence, i operate in this research an empirical evaluation of the development of several catalyse observatories: - state of the relations between the territorial intelligence and the sciences of information and communication - analyses of a corpus of territorial experiments at the european level - modelling of the contributions of the sciences of information and the communication in the catalyse method and in the procedures of transfers this research succeeds concretely to propose procedures of transfer and educational tools organized in an optics of improvement of the conception of the systems of production and access to information. the procedures of transfer must be estimated and redefined in researches to come, also by taking into account evolutions of the society, and researches in sciences of information and communication.
nuclear clusters in entrance and exit channels. null
the use of the n, n-diethyldodecanamide for actinide extractionin conjunction with liquid scintillation counting. if simplified, every information retrieval problem can be solved when the information need implied by its expression has been identified. we are interested in the criteria used in realising a good information retrieval problem expression. we have listed these criteria through some principles and maxims which first characterized the communication between two persons are applied. we choose to use the gricean maxims because they are the most favoured for this type of situation. secondly, we have tried to identify some others principles that can be used to realise a good information retrieval problem expression. the principles by grice can not resolve all forms of error associated with this particular form of communication. in our work, we defined three other principles namely: adhesion principle, reformulation principle, memorization principle. we give some examples of situations where the principles we have formulated are not applicable and the consequences. we present the possible applications of our new model: mirabel, which can help in the description of information retrieval problem from. it also compels its user to use essential good expression principle implicitly.
production of $\pi^0$ and $\eta$ mesons in carbon-induced relativistic heavy-ion collisions. null
luminescence kinetics of pbwo4 scintillator crystals. this article particularly proposes an approach of the communication of the total marks while being interested in those exploiting their strong capacity symbolic system. it tries to explain their success while reconsidering the history of the concept of advertising brand and their strategies to conclude on their current step. it proposes finally a certain number of research orientations opened by this object.
low pt phenomena in a + a and p + a collisions at midrapidity. null
formation and stability of coloids under simulated near field conditions. null
long-term disposal of waste packages with spent fuel in gorleben salt. null
on the influence of baryonic resonances on the dynamics of kaons : prepared for workshop on the structure of mesons, baryons, and nuclei, cracow. electricit de france, the french electricity provider is moving into new markets, and needs to know very well its clients and tracks their satisfaction. thus, different kinds of text mining tools were tested in order to analyze a huge quantity of heterogeneous textual documents, including mails, open-ended customer survey questions, discussion forums, and comments contained in large databases concerning customer contacts. in this context, it seemed unavoidable to build a test grid, in order to facilitate the comparison between different tools. this paper describes the test grid carrying out, the software selection, the way the evaluation of four tools (alceste, sas text miner, temis insight discoverer and spad/crm) was achieved and the results.
coulomb correlations for interferometry analysis of expanding hadron systems. the extraction of relevant information in texts constitutes a fundamental process of text mining. we realize this process with a linguistic platform (ilc) for recognition and extraction of terms and their linguistic variants from corpora. we present a methodology to enhance the recognition of syntactic term variation in english using syntactic and morphosyntactic features. those modifications contribute to improve filtering of the variants and to assist the expert in validating indexation.
ph dependency of hlw glass dissolution and sorption behaviour of eu, th and u on glass corrosion products. the instructions put together below fall into three categories. the publisher would be grateful to authors for respecting these indications. the length of this summary may attain a dozen lines. it is to be written in size 9 italic times. an abstract in french will be joined.
source terms for performance assessement of hlw glass and spent fuel as waste forms. kernel methods have recently been introduced to solve natural language processing and text mining problems. kernels define a generalised similarity measure between objects of arbitrary structure, with three interesting properties, namely the ability to incorporate prior knowledge about the problem, the implicit mapping of the data into a new feature space, which allows for very richer representation and where problem solving is easier, and finally the independence of learning algorithms from the dimension of this new feature space (the kernel trick). these properties, coupled with robust learning algorithms (for classification, clustering, dimension reduction, filtering, ...) provide some remarkable results in text mining tasks, such as document categorization, concept clustering, word sense disambiguation, information extraction, relationship extraction and automatic multilingual lexicon extraction.
different nn cross sections and multifragmentation. this paper reports our contribution to the poesia project, aimed at the automatic filtering of illicit contents on the internet. in this context, we present an original text classification system, based on information theory principles, which is able to detect and filter with a high accuracy pornographic texts.
neutral meson production in p-be and p-au collisions at 450 gev beam energy. we propose a "targeted" xml markup to computerize old dictionaries whose structure is "vague". it stands for a markup halfway between the "minimal" markup and the "analytic" markup already available. as regards this paper, it is meant to supply a brief survey of the use of the "cibl" mark up through the development of a c++ application which can be used on a large number of xml corpuses.
systematic study of low-mass electron pair production in p-be and p-au collisions at 450 gev/c. null
microscopic models for ultrarelativistic heavy ion collisions. null
multistep production of $\eta$ and hard $\pi^0$ mesons in subthreshold au-au collisions. we present an unsupervised approach to cluster sequences. this method is inspired by topology learning methods for hidden markov models, and is built upon the definition of a distance between markov models. this type of technique may be used to learn markovian character models from data or to identify allographs or handwriting styles.
high energy pb + pb collisions viewed by pion interferometry. null
kaon and proton ratios from central pb + pb collisions at the cern sps. null
one, two and three particle hadron spectra : recent results from cern/sps experiment na44. null
proton and anti-proton distribution at midrapidity in proton nucleus and sulphur nucleus collisions. null
a novel approach to the oxidation potentiel of the tc (vii) tc (iv) couple in hydroclorique acid medium through the reaction. null
search for disoriented chiral condensates in 158 gev/ a pb pb collisions. null
multiplicity and pseudorapidity distributions of photons in s + au reactions at 200 gev. null
transverse momentum distributions of neutral pions from nuclear collisions at 2000 agev. null
nuclear temperature measurements with helium isotopes. null
sensitivity of two-fragment correlation functions to initial-state momentum correlations. null
isospin independence of the h-he double isotope ration. null
examining the cooling of hot nuclei. null
reaction mechanisms and multifragmentation processes in $^{64}$zn+$^{58}$ni at 35a-79 mev. null
cluster radioactivity and very asymmetic fission through compact and creviced shapes. null
analytic description of the fusion and fission processes through quasi-molecular shapes. null
domain walls in supersymmetric gauge theories. for an anthropology of communication what do we mean by anthropology of communication? the term is used for the ethnographic analysis of human communication as well as for behavioural changes due to the application of new information technologies. we put forward an introduction (below), to be followed by seven texts: three reflections on anthropology, three on communication and one concerned with the overlap between these two concepts. starting with december 2004, these papers will be accessible at the rate of one paper a month. our intention is to search for all terms associated with anthropology and communication, to create an inventory of representative semantic fields for them, to indicate current overlaps established by colleagues carrying out communications and information research as well as possible overlaps in the future.
physics of thermal qcd. null
the multifragmentation of spectator matter. null
contribution of $\pi^0$ and $\eta$ dalitz decays of the dilepton invariant-mass spectrum in 1a gev heavy-ion collisions. null
exclusive and meson production in ar + ca at 800 mev. null
can one extract source radi from transport theories. in this paper we define a digital document according to three levels of structure: its organization structure, its control structure and its interactivity structure. whereas these three structures exist inherently in every document, they are redefined when dealing with digital documents, since they can be abstracted and formalised, and consequently manipulated. we show how these three structures are implemented within the scenari publishing chain, which provided us a framework of application in real project.
multiplicity dependence of pion source size in heavy-ion collisions. the document concept commonly deals with data that documents contain, but rarely with (inter)actions that documents can handle. as a consequence, it is hard to specify how users can interact on documents : this is mainly done by dedicated applications from which users have to swap in order to achieve a single editing task. in this paper, we suggest the use of a model for interactive components based on three metaphors, the document, presentation and instrument. the proposed model aims at replacing the application concept by the document and interaction instrument concepts within interactive workplaces, thus resulting in a higher powerfulness / ease-of-use ratio.
collective expansion in hight energy heavy ion collisions. today, we more than ever need useful abstractions in order to reason on complex document transformations, to assert properties on document manipulation systems, and to inspire perhaps revolutionary approaches of document creation and processing. this paper sketches perspectives and proposes markers toward inventing the next document generation.
comment on search for direct photons from s + au collisions at 200 gev nucleon by the ceres collaboration. a multidisciplinary research work on electronic document was used in the call for this issue of the journal. it is summarized in this introduction, namely its three approaches on the form, the text and the medium. the eleven selected articles are briefly presented. they propose to develop different modeling, to point changing between traditional and electronic document and to show the change in progress on different fields. this work in progress have already showed real results and consequently must be continued.
azimuthal anisotropy of in s + au reactions at 200 a gev. internet provokes a double effect on rumors: it lets diffuse it more than ever and, in the same time, gives the power to control the occurrence of a suspected rumor. in this aim, some specialized or "reference websites" are available on the net. the text of this communication presents some of them: the first one, afu in 1991, was the faq of the newsgroup alt.folklore.urban. thereafter were hoaxbusters.ciac.org (1995) and snopes.com (1997), and a couple of "sequels" (urbanlegends.about.com, 1997; truthorfiction.com, 1998; hoaxbuster.com, 2000). finally, some questions will arouse from the fact that none of these websites seem to have any means of investigation, neither any routine method.
soft photon production in central collisions of 200 a gev s + au. null
dynamical aspects of particle emission in dissipative binary collisions : effects on hot-nuclei formation. null
effects on the mean-field dynamics and phase space geometry on the cluster formation. null
azimuthal 2 alpha correlations and projectile-residue distributions selected by neutron and charged-particle multiplicity measurement. null
how to measure which sort of particles was emetted earlier and which later. null
thermal energy analysis around the fermi energyin ar+ag reaction z. the steps of territorial intelligence are based on the emergence of new fashions of exchange within the territory . it acts thus on the territorial visibility and hustles the places of strategic reflexion; by doing this, it takes part within the country, to make move the bond socital. this paper subjects a posture of collection and mutualisation of information within the territory.
screening v.s confinement in 1 + 1 dimensions. null
structure constants of the d5, chiral, minimal model. what is the real nature of document changing during the digital revolution ? to answer, we need a "digital discours sociology", which analyse convergence between economics, sign and technics.
dynamical effects and intermediate mass fragment production in peripheral and semicentral collisions of xe + sn at 50 mev/nucleon. this article presents the results of a content analysis of magazines produced and distributed in quebec for female adolescents. the aim of the research was to examine how femininity and male-female relations are represented in such magazines. it validated the hypothesis that these magazines are conservative rather than egalitarian, and allows this media form to be seen as an agent of traditional socialization. distribution of the various articles (n=253) in the magazines by theme revealed that nearly two thirds (64.8%) deal with beauty, fashion, boys, heterosexual relations and male singers or actors. and while over one third (35.2%) discuss personal and social development, a careful reading of these articles revealed that the focus was on the personal rather than the social dimension of such development.
description of sub-barrier heavy ion fusion in a semi classical quantum tunneling model. information and communication technologies change the way people consider information and knowledge. their use in e-learning raises orientation problems while navigating within technological devices. first of all, the learner-subject must locate the tools and services at his disposal during all of the training. to help orientation, resorting to the spatial metaphor is frequent. this research is based on results of some empirical survey. it is the opportunity of questioning oneself as to the limits of this type of metaphor by studying mental representations that users may have. solutions could be brought by making spatial metaphor intervene more as a tool of information processing than as a tool of software localization.
energetic protons induced radioactivity in space detectors. null
comment on analysis of hard two-photon correlations measured in heavy-ion reactions at intermediate energies. f. fialkoff's has led us to wonder about the most widely borrowed novels in public libraries and how they are promoted. we analysed the best lending statistics in three libraries in lorraine (north-east france) and tried to identify the most frequently borrowed novels. this project led us to exchange ideas with librarians. we would like to find out about their presuppositions and thus, know more about libraries because we will know about librarians better. this study allows to compare how the librarians apprehend reading and how readers do. we would like to show the gap between the two representations.
importance of-one and two-body dissipation at intermediate energies studied by hard photons. null
linking dynamical and thermal models of ultrarelativistic nuclear scattering. the university of sud (toulon, france) is experimenting a socio-technical system aiming at reinforcing collaborative work among students. the present paper summarizes the theoretical foundations of such a system and explains how it works in practice and how network analysis can help interpreting operational data.
fragment formation in heavy ion collisions. null
midrapidity protons in 158 a gev pb + pb collisions. the author describes the present document delivery situation in france with particular reference to copyright and the eu directive, consortia, portals, funding and some suggestions for the future.
influence of the emitter coulomb field on two proton correlations function. this article uses the results of a thesis to analyse the changing structure of access services to scientific and technical information in french university libraries, and corresponding changes in the role of inter-library loan services. these changes have mainly occurred with the growing integration of electronic resources in collections and an overhaul of the services on offer. given the specific features of access systems to scientific information and the wide range of users in the various sections of university libraries, we will be attempting a detailed analysis of the situation in the french university network.
freeze out conditions in ultrarelativistic heavy-ion collisions. null
kaon spectra from p + be to pb + pb collisions. null
pestov spark counter prototype development for the cern lhc alice experiment. null
azimuthal correlations in the target fragmentation region of high energy nuclear collisions. null
a preshower photon multilicity detector for the wa93 experiment at cern. null
limits on the production of direct photons in 200 a gev s 32 + au collisions. null
extended pulse shape discrimination capabilities using a csi-bgo phoswich. null
compressibility probed by linear momentum transfer. null
real and virtual comptom scattering (experiments). null
elliptic flow : transition from out-of plane emission in au + au collisions by e895 collaboration. null
systematics of inclusive photon production in 158a gev pb induced reactions on ni, nb, and pb targets. null
elliptic of k+ and ii+ in 158a gev pb+pb collisions. null
deep-subthreshold n and n production probing pion dynamics in the reaction ar+ca at 180a mev. null
freeze-out parameters in central 158 a gev pb+pb collisions. null
the uniform description of hight energy hadron production mechanisms in the new venus model. null
on the origin of the radial flow in low energy heavy ion reactions. this article consists of a creative detour through the benjaminian argumentation in order to presenting certain artistic experiences and scientific research as a situational exercise of the aura, which is at work in the process of the perception and cognition of the infinite world by one unique subject.
on the flow of kaons produced in relativistic heavy ion collision. null
two proton correlations near midrapidity in p + pb and s + pb collisions at the cern - sps. this article consists of a creative detour through the benjaminian argumentation in order to presenting certain artistic experiences and scientific research as a situational exercise of the aura, which is at work in the process of the perception and cognition of the infinite world by one unique subject.
darboux method and search and invariants lotka volterra and complex quadratic system. null
persistence of collective fluctuations in n body metaequilibrium gravitationnal and plasma systems. the object of this research commanded by the european community was to understand the mechanisms and the efficiency of the discourses of prevention both explicit (officials campaigns toward the public) and others type of discourses which are broadcasted to inform people through the mass media in order to form professionals of health care. during several years it is realy an instrumentation of tv programs which appears bringing cognitive contributions and sharing emotionnals ressources with the tv audience. rather than the objective discourse of information brought by the classical tv journalism, an other type of speech mixing testimony and private advices has taken place, and apparently with more success.  the turning point in public opinion of the scandal and a real change in the way to see the disease and the people. the event is amplified and the plight is constructed as nearer. it is no more the disease of other people (homosexual, toxicomane).
signature of geometrical effects in heavy ion collisions below 100 mev/u. null
exclusive electroproduction of vector mesons and transversity distributions. null
expansion and hadronization of a chirally symmetric quark-meson plasma. null
microorganisms as potential vectors of the migration of radionucleides. the migration of heavy metals and radionuclides depends on many factors of which the microbiological life. in this paper, we describe in a first step, the microorganisms-metals interaction processes and secondly, our works on biosorption. the important factors affecting the biosorption are the cell wall structure and the growth conditions. bacteria are shown to exhibit a fixation selectivity for some ions (th4+). finally we give some examples of the characterization of the binding sites.
normalized vacuum states in n=4 supersymmetric yang-mills quantum mechanics with any gauge group. null
microscopic calculations of stopping and flow from 160 a mev to 160-a gev. null
the formation of fragments in symmetric heavy ion collisions. the attempt to bring to light an urban press is indissociable of taking city (or "l'urbain") into account as global concept. from such context, it's a matter of question how far it's possible to perceive "urban" press discourses through some main discourse types, spotted at a global level. the instituting discourse approach privileged here is tested from french, brazilian and american papers examples, in different times.
rotating bubble and toroidal nuclei and fragmentation. the concepts of communicative space, media sphere and public sphere are sometimes used like synonyms one of the other. however, according to us, they are three different concepts: public sphere and media sphere are two distinct spaces symbolic systems which, both, are anchored in communicative space.
dynamical analysis of isospin and angular momentum effects in peripheral heavy-ion reactions. the institute for scientific and technical information (inist) is a service unit of the french national centre for scientific research (cnrs). a leading integrated scientific and technical information center, inist provides the major public research and academic institutions as well as the socio-economic sector with resources and services designed to improve dissemination of and access to international scientific and technical information. committed to the new information and communication technologies, inist offers a whole range of access services to scientific and technical information on the internet. the article highlights the place and the future of document supply in this context.
deformation energy of a toroidal nucleus and plane fragmentation barriers. the internet is a profound cultural revolution. yet, the importance of this radical change in our way of treating information has not yet entered mainstream intellectual discourse. this paper considers how researchers in the humanities can take internet seriously, by using it to broadcast their work but also to communicate with peers and public about it.
search for production of strangelets in quark matter using particle correlations. null
unlike particle correlations and the strange quark matter distillation process. the article looks back on the 183 workshops and briefing sessions of the 15 annual uksg conferences from 1990 to 2004. the content of this particular form of professional training reflects the development of the professional environment, interests and activities of librarians, especially the emergence of the digital library. nine major subjects of information and debate are identified: human resource management, new software, acquisition of e-serials, legal aspects, emerging standards, usage statistics, library/vendor relationship, document delivery, and publishing. an analysis of attendance and some remarks on specific features of the sessions complete this historical study.
tof : proposal for a neutron time of flight facility, european collaboration for high-resolution measurements of neutron cross sections between 1ev and 250 mev. null
nuclear interferometry for two-nucleon systems (experiment e286 at ganil). null
study of intermediate velocity products in the ar+ni collisions between 52 and 95 a.mev. intermediate velocity products in ar+ni collisions from 52 to 95 a.mev are studied in an experiment performed at the ganil facility with the 4$\pi$ multidetector indra. it is shown that these emissions cannot be explained by statistical decays of the quasi-projectile and the quasi-target in complete equilibrium. three methods are used to isolate and characterize intermediate velocity products. the total mass of these products increases with the violence of the collision and reaches a large fraction of the system mass in mid-central collisions. this mass is found independent of the incident energy, but strongly dependent on the geometry of the collision. finally it is shown that the kinematical characteristics of intermediate velocity products are weakly dependent on the experimental impact parameter, but strongly dependent on the incident energy. the observed trends are consistent with a participant-spectator like scenario or with neck emissions and/or break-up.
stopping and radial flow in central $^{58}$ni + $^{58}$ni collisions between 1a and 2a gev. the production of charged pions, protons and deuterons has been studied in central collisions of 58ni on 58ni at incident beam energies of 1.06, 1.45 and 1.93 agev. the dependence of transverse-momentum and rapidity spectra on the beam energy and on the centrality of the collison is presented. it is shown that the scaling of the mean rapidity shift of protons established for ags and sps energies is valid down to 1 agev. the degree of nuclear stopping is discussed; the iqmd transport model reproduces the measured proton rapidity spectra for the most central events reasonably well, but does not show any sensitivity between the soft and the hard equation of state (eos). a radial flow analysis, using the midrapidity transverse-momentum spectra, delivers freeze-out temperatures t and radial flow velocities beta_r which increase with beam energy up to 2 agev; in comparison to existing data of au on au over a large range of energies only beta_r shows a system size dependence.
mass scaling of reaction mechanisms in intermediate energy heavy ion collisions. null
comparison between the fragmentation processes in central pb + ag and pb + au collisions. null
surveying the nuclear caloric curve. null
is reducibility in nuclear multifragmentation related to thermal scaling?. null
multifragmentation in xe(50 amev)+sn: confrontation of theory and data. null
thermal and chemical equilibrium for vaporizing sources. null
dynamical effects in peripheral and semi-central collisions at intermediate energy. null
kinematical properties and composition of vaporizing sources: is thermodynamical equilibrium achieved ?. null
neutrons from the breakup of $^{19}$c. null
azimuthal anisotropies as stringent test for nuclear transport models. azimuthal distributions of charged particles and intermediate mass fragments emitted in au+au collisions at 600amev have been measured using the fopi facility at gsi-darmstadt. data show a strong increase of the in-plane azimuthal anisotropy ratio with the charge of the detected fragment. intermediate mass fragments are found to exhibit a strong momentum-space alignment with respect of the reaction plane. the experimental results are presented as a function of the polar center-of-mass angle and over a broad range of impact parameters. they are compared to the predictions of the isospin quantum molecular dynamics model using three different parametrisations of the equation of state. we show that such highly accurate data provide stringent test for microscopic transport models and can potentially constrain separately the stiffness of the nuclear equation of state and the momentum dependence of the nuclear interaction.
vaporization events from binary dissipative collisions. null
onset of collective expansion in nucleus-nucleus collisions below 100 mev/u. null
disappearance of flow and the in-medium nucleon-nucleon cross section for $^{64}zn$ + $^{27}al$ collisions at intermediate energies. null
pion reabsorption in heavy-ion collisions interpreted in terms of the delta capture process. null
multi-boson effects. null
chiral phase transition in an expanding quark-antiquark plasma. null
instability of the filtering method for vlasov's equation. null
does one create very hot nuclei in heavy-ion reactions below 100 mev/u ?. a meticulous analysis of emitted charged particles in heavy-ion reactions has been carried out in the framework of the dynamical semiclassical landau-vlasov approach for the ar + al collisions at 65 mev/u. in accordance with most of the recent experimental results, the binary reaction mechanism is the main reaction feature. contrary to the expectations that below 100 mev/u a mechanism reminiscent of low energy deep-inelastic reaction could create two very excited sources (the primary quasiprojectile and quasitarget), the simulation shows that this reaction mechanism is closely connected to the participant-spectator picture. due to an abundant dynamical (participant) emission mainly centered at midrapidity, the primary quasiprojectile and quasitarget can be identified as not very hot spectators.
wavelet representation of the nuclear dynamics. null
magnetoconductance autocorrelation function for few-channel chaotic microstructures. null
the importance of initial - final state correlations for the formation of fragments in heavy ion collision. null
disappearance of elliptic flow, a new probe for the nuclear equation of state. using a relativistic hadron transport model, we investigate the utility of the elliptic flow excitation function as a probe for the stiffness of nuclear matter and for the onset of a possible quark-gluon-plasma (qgp) phase-transition at ags energies 1 e_beam 11 agev. the excitation function shows a strong dependence on the nuclear equation of state, and exhibits characteristic signatures which could signal the onset of a phase transition to the qgp.
probing partonic structure in $\gamma* \gamma \longrightarrow \pi \pi$ near threshold. hadron pair production gamma* gamma -&gt; h hbar in the region where the c.m. energy is much smaller than the photon virtuality can be described in a factorized form, as the convolution of a partonic handbag diagram and generalized distribution amplitudes which are new non-perturbative functions describing the exclusive fragmentation of a quark-antiquark pair into two hadrons. scaling behavior and a selection rule on photon helicity are signatures of this mechanism. the case where h is a pion is emphasized.
time ordering in off-diagonal parton distributions. we investigate the relevance of time ordering in the definition of off-diagonal parton distributions in terms of products of fields. the method we use easily allows determination of their support properties and provides a link to their interpretation from a parton point of view. it can also readily be applied to meson distribution amplitudes.
modelling the many-body dynamics of heavy ion collisions : present status and future perspective. null
signal of fragment structures from a semiclassical transport equation in heavy-ion collisions. null
excitation energies and temperatures of hot nuclei produced in the reactions of cu+au at 35 a mev. null
impact parameter determination in experimental analysis using neural network. null
a hot expanding source in 50 a mev xe+sn central reactions. null
independence of fragment charge distributions of the size of heavy multifragmenting sources. null
